Humboldt University GGF10  GridFTP-WG(DATA) session March 11, 2004

GGF IP notice given 

Status of gridFTP docs

 GridFTP protocol Extension to FTP for the Grid
 
 

Status of gridFTP v2.0 dev
   Unidirectional data transfers
   Ordering of PASV/PORT and STOR/RETR
      combine cmds into one.  proposal in gridforge.
 
   Disconnection of idle control channels
question from allcock:
 has any one seen this disconnect problem
 2-hands yes

Matt (Fermi): should'nt it send back file size.
Igor: not needed

Mullen (IBM): why isn't IEFT addresssing this problem
  ans: asked IETF, not responded

Allcock:
  3 have seen the problems, why are the rest of you here and are we
  address these problems
 
Igor: to findout about newftp not wuftp
Igor: we will be using gridFTP more in the future
Igor: who SRM will relate to SRM
   Allcock:  GridFTP is only a transport
 
   Control of contents and frequence of server feedback
   Unreliable EOF communication

Data integrity verification
  new cmds to send/query chksum value for a file to prevent corruption 
  OTW (not for security) only for reliability.
  Current proposal is to cksum file or portion of file
  The other proposal is to tell the sever that a file of cksum XX is 
coming.

Structured dir listing support for IPv6
  adopt IETF stds
 
Packed transfers
  How about dynamo?
  Matt (Fermi): we need to specify this in the protocol
  Allcock: How to we specify this for all of the different functions and 
           services
  Mullen (IBM) is there a need for an extensible protocol to announce or
     query for extensible services such as foo or dynamo
  Allcock: can you write a proposal?
 
Felxible striping


Allcock:
  At the end of this month (for close friends and family) the newFTP will 
be out
  a direct replacement, all functionality relating to the gridFTP std
  are implemented.
  XIO api is implemented.  Running over UDT with one line change.
  Compression stuff is one way to take advantage for 
  Performance is better by 10% over wuFTP.
 
Simple client and server written in python


Implemented S and X mode of data transfers
  Can transfer any direction in relation to firewalls blocking SYN
Data flow is indepent of data socket connection
Dynamic bandwidth allocation: data channels can be
  gracefully closed/opened at any time
  (e.g. 10 connections for 1 transfer, server can gracefully close
   some of the 10 without terminating the transfer)
Implemented optional cksum verification of data block 
  protection of data channel of transmission errors
Matt (fermi): do we need to change our apps
Allcock: working it out, two methods one way is such that apps do not
         need to change.  Anyone who wrote and ftp put, it works.
         I cannot break the install base.
 
Igor: resends won't work in our case, we need to get together after this
        meeting and work this out.
 
Matt (fermi): if I write directly to tape how does resend work?
Allcock: Nobody I know of, writes directly to tape. 

Igor: demo on extended block mode transfer
      demo multi channel small transfer
 
question: protocol for sliced data 1T of NT
Igor: prtocol does not care
Allcock:  protocol ok for 64 bit offset / pointer map; we have moved 
          400G file
 
Igor: demo continued bad network connection where some resends requiredd

 


Future of GridFTP

Goal: produce GridFTP v2.0 draft doc by GGF11

Deadline for proposals: April 16, 2004

Summarize received proposals into draft doc

Continue working on prototypes

Present draft doc and experience with prototypes during GGF11

Matt (fermi): Would the WG be open to protection of data against malicious
              altering
Allcock: yes were open to anything, we can go over ssh but most don't like
         the preformance hit.
 
Allcock: plese participate in the email group

         if solving the steams issue, we can't change mode S.  Any thing
         on the wire changes the RFC.
Igor: we can do that, for discussion later

Please share your experience with the new protocol.

Allcock: Berkley wrapped the library in python.
         there is a java client available
         Someone (Corrie of SourceForge) offered to do the server in Java
 
Allcock: How many used urlcopy, (observes 1/2)
         How many have implemented in code (most in C, some in java)
 
Allcock: nicFTP (ncsftp client was modified for authentication)
         Dicuss and anounce email list sent out that nicFTP can corrupt 
         data and don't use it, instead use
         uberFTP and alt (ALT) google search is the better client
 
         If you see bugs, put it in bugzilla.
 
Allcock:  Thanks for comming, I'm available for questions.
 

[Taken by Shawn Mullen]
