GGF14 DAIS Session 1
====================

Notes: Mario Antonioletti

Norman Paton opens the session.

This (first DAIS) session will cover:

Review of progress 
       see 
https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/dais-wg/document/GGF14-Session1-Intro/en/1
Review of the WS-DAI specification
       see 
https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/dais-wg/document/GGF14-Session1-WS-DAI/en/1

The second DAIS session will cover:
WS-DAIR
   
https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/dais-wg/document/GGF14-Session2-WS-DAIR/en/1 
 
WS-DAIX
   
https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/dais-wg/document/GGF14-Session2-WS-DAIX/en/1

WS-DAIO 
   
https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/dais-wg/document/GGF14-Session2-WS-DAIO/en/1

Group has been going for quite some time. BOF at GGF4. Hope to submit core 
specs in July 2005 (or well before
GGF15).

Submitted specs for GGF14 rather late as we were trying to get the 
documents as close to final submission as possible.

Some of the changes in WS-DAI have not quite propagated to the realization 
specs.

Have taken long as we have trying to work out our scope and dependencies. 
Started using OGSI. Scarred by the OGSI experience. Not all DAIS 
participants/vendors are committed to WSRF.

Also, WSRF is not suitable for all data resources nor do they map 
naturally. Have spent a considerable amount of time trying to explore the 
mapping options.

Now have a core that does not have a dependency on WSRF. This has a fair 
amount of functionality but not soft state management and other things 
that would be gained through the use of WSRF. Hence have introduced a 
layer over a core set of functionalities that do not have a dependency on 
WSRF.

Susan Malaika now takes over to present the present status of the WS-DAI.

(content is mainly as those in the slides presented)

Dave Berry: My memory of the GGF13 DAIS session where the conduit was 
introduced was that the DBMS was the conduit and the tables and other 
things were managed by DAIS.

Dave Pearson: the DBMS was acting as a conduit...

Susan: that was the idea in Seoul but it has evolved since then.  We are 
trying to take into account which objects are managed by DAIS and which 
are not. Also trying to create a framework that works with and without 
WSRF.

Dave Pearson: in your slides you said that the data conduit is optional 
and that it allows you to access WSRF and
non-WSRF service. Are there any limitations in not using the conduit?

Susan: one of them is the way that you deal with properties - without WSRF 
you have one operation to get the whole property document you do not have 
a finer granularity of access ...

Bruce Barkstrom: this appears to be written in the context of DBMSs - what 
happens with data in very large collections that have very large files. 
What do you do with that?

Also, in your data catalogue do you allow for the inclusion of remote 
catalogues - for instance
external libraries and references to other catalogues?

Susan: first dealing with large resource - you can define an interface 
that allows you to get pieces of your data back at a time ... our intent 
that this is flexible.


Bruce: Earth sciences calls that a subset within a file and you would not 
use a query to extract this information but a function.

You also have supersetting - where you collect pieces of data together and 
put them together and send them back, e.g. in meteorology you could 
extract pictures of hurricanes from images kept in different files and 
stored in different locations. Do you support this?

Jon Myers: I am from the DFDL group - have been looking at the XML 
realization - if you have a DFDL description that maps over multiple files 
you could use this to provide this kind of behavior ...

Susan: so what you are saying is that you can describe the whole file 
system as though it were a single document - a view - and this view 
mechanism might provide a way of looking at many files in different 
locations in a file system to present a global view - is that right?

Jon Myers: yes

Susan: for the catalogue part of the question ... you asked if we could 
deal with a distributed catalogue - the catalogue could be a real 
catalogue or a distributed catalogue ... we only describe the interface 
... have a catalogue interface what data you have access to

Bruce: it is not the distributed part but the granularity of the 
description that concerns me - in the previous example the hurricanes are 
not in the catalogue - these were determined by a data mining application 
that found these hurricanes and created a new catalogue containing this 
information ...

Susan: you need to look at the specifications to see if it satisfies your 
requirements...

Norman: I would have answered the question differently - the word 
catalogue is misleading.... nothing to stop people from defining 
registries our catalogue only defines the resources that the services 
have.  It could be generalized but I would not use it that way ...

Susan: so maybe catalogue is not such a good name ... it only has a list 
of names that are accessible through the service

Savas: when you presented the conduit you suggested that it is optional - 
is the design of the conduit optional or is it in the implementation 
technology that is optional?

Susan: I would say it is optional in the architecture ... it is there to 
have lifetimes managed and finer grain access to properties ..

Savas: to introduce an artifact in the technology only to add some 
capabilities does not seem productive to me ....

Susan: it makes it possible for people that do not want to use WSRF to use 
DAIS ...

...

Savas: I understand the design decision ... I would prefer the conduit to 
be part of the architecture. If you use WSRF then every message is 
directed through the conduit but in the case where you do not have WSRF 
then the name becomes the conduit.

Susan: the name is always there ..

Savas: if it is not the name that identifies the conduit then what is it? 
... it is the operations that you get through WSRF - you have a WSRF way 
of manipulating things...

...

Savas: there is a 1-1 association between a conduit and WSRF?

Susan: yes ...

Norman: a conduit is a WS-Resource ... we don't like the name conduit

Savas: I thought the conduit was introduce to allow different 
implementations to be used but it now only seems to be there if you want 
to use WSRF .....

Not objecting to the use of WSRF ... I'm making the point that from a 
design point of view you are introduce a concept to only use WSRF when you 
can use WSRF without using the conduit.

Norman: the question that Savas is asking is mainly a presentational one 
as opposed to a disagreement in the content of what is being said ...

...

Savas: if you were to tell me that every message had to go through a 
conduit to identify the resource then I would have understood what you 
meant ....

...

Norman: if you use WSRF, you have an EPR that identifies the resource, 
which then gives you the option as to whether you include an abstract name 
in the messages or not.  It is the case that the type of the messages is 
the same whether you use the conduit or not ... if you pass a name to 
something that is uniquely identified by WSRF then passing that name is 
unnecessary but still possible. You could mandate that you always pass a 
name
even in WSRF which means .... the client code used will look the same for 
both cases .... so we could require a name in every case ...

...

Susan: we do not mandate the names in WSRF operations only in the DAIS 
operations ...

...


Paul Watson: wish to applaud the effort of the group - what you have come 
up with is pragmatic and workable. The next thing is best practice - 
people will want to use this ... they may over use some of the features - 
for instance the dynamic way of creating data resource. I see why this is 
useful but I feel it could be badly used - sky query have a similar 
framework - use select into which allows you to keep it in the data 
resource and that offers large advantages .... Allows you to address 
Bruce's question but if someone reads the spec they might think too much 
about creating data resources ... the suggestion would be to come up with 
a best practice document.

Greg Riccardi: if one said create a data resource - a sensible is to do a 
create table from select ... the data resource does not have to be created 
it can just be a create view ... the implementation could do this ... 
Dave Pearson: the spec is providing generic capabilities .... For instance 
the JSDL people could say that you could do this by submitting a JSDL 
document ... the best practice guide would be a good idea ... but until 
the implementations come out it's difficult to state what best practice is 
...

Dave Berry: maybe there is a research project ...

Bruce: is it worth talking about scenarios in this context ...? 
[ Here is scenario supplied by Bruce for DAIS: 
https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/dais-wg/document/SubsettingandSupersetting-UseCaseforDAIS/en/1 
  ]

...


