GGF14 CA Operations WG Meeting
Thu Jun 30 2005
Chicago, IL

Agenda: 
The America's Grid PMA (TAGPMA) Charter Revision and Discussion
led by Tony Genovese

See Tony's PowerPoint slides at
<https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/caops-wg/document/GGF14_-_The_Americas_Grid_PMA>.

Founding members in attendance: Canarie (Quesnel), OSG (Cowles, Skow),
TeraGrid (Rimovsky), Texas High Energy Grid (Sill), DOEGrids
(Genovese, Helm), and Dartmouth (Franklin).

For TeraGrid, Tony Rimovsky represents TeraGrid as a relying party.
TeraGrid CAs should also join separately.  UK E-Science and DOE Grids
CAs are trusted by TeraGrid as a relying party.  That straddles the
boundary between EUGridPMA and TAGPMA.  The purpose of the IGTF
(International Grid Trust Federation) is to bridge these boundaries.
The certificates for accredited CAs will be published at the IGTF
level.

Tony Genovese led a discussion of the TAGPMA charter.  We have a
hierarchy of PMAs, with IGTF at the top, the three regional PMAs (EU,
AP, TAG), and then "local" PMAs.  Could possibly split into separate
North America and South America PMAs in the future if so desired.  We
have regional affiliations for reasons of convenience (timezone and
travel), and it may make sense to reorganize the regions in the future
as membership changes (for example, participation from Africa).

There are multiple types of authentication services (PKI, Kerberos).
An operational service provided by an organization.  This is discussed
in the Authentication Federation Guidelines document.  It'd be useful
to include a definition of authentication services in the charter.
Should be an open definition.

How does the Federal Bridge CA relate to this?  Unlikely that the
Federal Bridge will come to this group for accredidation.  Our scope
is restricted to grid authentication, though authentication providers
can serve other needs outside of this scope.  Also consider the Higher
Education Bridge CA.

TAGPMA could submit a new authentication service profile, in use, to
IGTF for assignment of an OID.  Each regional PMA produces its own
trust matrix for its relying parties, which need not be accepted by
other regional PMAs, but discussion between the regional PMAs will be
encouraged through the IGTF.

In charter, need to clarify use of "authentication service" versus
"authentication profile".

Dane has submitted KCA (online Kerberized CA) authentication profile.
Work on a bridge profile is in progress.

TAGPMA will mirror other regional PMA repositories.

TAGPMA will accredit authentication service providers and document
compliance to membership rules and authentication profile(s).  TAGPMA
doesn't audit, but members must be allowed to audit each other.
What does accredit mean?  EUGridPMA has an accredidation guidelines
document.  This is similar to "policy mapping" in the bridge CA sense.

What is the "watchdog" function?  How are TAGPMA members removed?
This is covered in section 12.4.5 (Resignation/Expulsion) of the
charter.  Will TAGPMA investigate questions raised?  Should be listed
as an activity.  We should have a disaccredidation process that
doesn't require expulsion.

Does TAGPMA have unaccredited members?  Relying parties are not
accredited to a profile.  Experimental CAs would be accredited toward
an experimental authentication profile.

The TAGPMA will not run an authentication or authorization service.
Won't exhaustively list all excluded activities in the charter.

Will TAGPMA provide guidance to members who want to join?  Can't help
everyone set up their CA.

Being a founding member doesn't mean automatic accredidation.

Canarie and DOEGrids are already accredited by EUGridPMA.

Do we need an additional face to face meeting to get this done?  Need
to set dates.  Will have a phone call.

TAGPMA will become active today and begin the accredidation/review
process.  OSG needs this.  Will continue to fine-tune the charter
until the founders are ready to vote.  Set up TAGPMA members-only
mailing list and repository immediately.  All founding members in
attendance agree on beginning operations.  Darcy will be acting chair.

Should add a glossary to the document.

Please join the tagpma-general@tagpma.org mailing list for general
discussion.  Sign-up at www.tagpma.org.
