GGF14 CA Operations WG Meeting
Tue Jun 28 2005
Chicago, IL

Agenda:
Reorganization - Dane Skow
OCSP - Olle Mulmo
Authentication Federations - Tony Genovese
CA Auditing - Yoshio Tanaka
XKMS - Ayako Komatsu
One-statement Certificate Policies - Milan Sova
Federal ID - John Volmer
International Grid Trust Federation - Tony Genovese

The Grid PMA Charter document is in public comment period.  Please
read and post comments at <http://www.ggf.org/ggf_docs_public.htm>,
even if just to say, "I've read and I approve."  Especially for PMAs
that are using this document.

The GGF web pages have been updated according to the new working group
organization.  CAOPS has moved from the security standards area to the
grid operations community area.  CAOPS is an ongoing forum for
discussions by CA operators.  While GGF doesn't run grid
infrastructures, GGF does recognize the need for an international
forum for grid operators.  CAOPS has been a successful group in this
regard for years.  Rather than trying to fit this group into the
standards process, CAOPS fits better in the community operations area.
Nominations for new area directors are being considered -- contact
NOMCOM members with suggestions.  Darcy is a NOMCOM member.

We had a good discussion recently on the mailing list on the OCSP
draft
(https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/caops-wg/document/OCSP_Requirements_for_Grids).
Olle will be giving us a new version soon.  An implementation is
available.  Mike Helm said there are some outstanding issues:

  - How do we manage proxy certificates in relation to OCSP.  How
    would OCSP reply to queries based on proxy certificates?

  - How does OCSP fit in with other revocation services?  In what
    order are things done?  What do you as a relying party want?  What
    is more authoritative?

  - Assumptions about CRLs are implied by the OCSP document,
    essentially that they exist and they are useful.  We don't have a
    best practices for CRLs except in EU Grid minimum requirements.
    We don't revoke proxy certificates in CRLs today.

Olle referred to the OCSP Services Architecture diagram in the OCSP
document.  CRLs are published periodically.  The relying party uses
OCSP and/or CRLs.  Inconsistencies are inevitable, but it's okay.  CRL
issuers and OCSP responders say, "to the best of my knowledge, this
certificate is fine."  Is this resolvable, or should the discussion be
summarized in the document?  We don't have enough experience with OCSP
yet to document "best practices".  The paper should just mention that
there might be inconsistencies.

Olle described the "fire and forget" policy of proxy certificates.  We
should put our energy into constraining proxy certificate policies.
Short lifetime is the traditional argument for proxy certificates.
The Site AAA document lists requirements on maximum proxy lifetimes,
recommending that people re-check authorization each day.  One method
is to use MyProxy credential renewal.  Another way is to use an
authorization attribute, like a VOMS attribute, that can be refreshed.
We have no clear answer for this; we need experience.  The paper
should leave it open and describe our discussion of the issues.

Do we need a CRL profile for grids?  The OCSP document has
requirements for CRLs, including references to delta CRLs.  Does
anyone use anything other than "regular" CRLs?  Use of "suspensions"
has been discussed.

Action item: Olle will add text about managing proxy certificates to
the OCSP document.

A document on Guidelines for Authentication Federations in Grids, to
provide a consistent way for identifying authentication mechanisms, is
available at
<https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/caops-wg/document/Guidelines_for_Authenticaiton_Federations_in_Grids>.
It discusses four characteristics of authentication mechanisms:

  - A governing board
  - Set of membership and accreditation procedures
  - Operational requirements
  - A publishing process

Tony has received feedback from TAGPMA and the IGTF who are using this
document.  He reworked the governance section based on the feedback.
The document can be used as a site document, federation document, or
federation of federations.  Is the document too terse or do we need
more text?  Feedback from TAGPMA, IGTF, and others would be helpful.
DOEGrids CA is ready to follow this format.  Please post your comments
on the mailing list.  The document could be expanded to address
authorization issues.  The PMA Charter covers section 12 in this
document (governance).  We can refer to CP/CPS and PMA charter
documents from this format.

Yoshio presented the experience of having the AIST CA audited by the
NAREGI CA.  Please see the powerpoint slides at
<https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/caops-wg/document/GGF14-Audit>
and the Audit Checklist document at
<https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/caops-wg/document/GGF14-Audit-Checklist>.
The checklist document may be useful for auditing other CAs, for
example, in the EU Grid PMA.  NAREGI selected from the Web Trust
checklist items based on the EU Grid PMA requirements document.  It
would be helpful to have documentation justifying the choices and why
some items were verified by interview versus inspection.  Web Trust
provides additional items to check if desired.  Perhaps this could
become a working group community best practice document.

Ayako Komatsu presented the Naregi XKMS service.  The source for the
NAREGI CA softare is available.  The current deployment uses one
central CA service.

Milan Sova proposed one-statement certificate policies.
The problem:
- "Was this certificate issued to a host or to a person?"
- "Is the private key stored on a hardware token or in software?"
- "Is the private key encrypted?"
- "Was the private key generated by the subscriber or by the issuer?"
Proposed solution: the One Statement Certificate Policy.  Assign a
policy OID for each attribute (for example: host certificate).  Then,
each host certificate references that OID in the certificatePolicies
extension (an OID for the issuer plus the OIDs for the different
one-statement CPs).  We could assign OIDs under GGF/IGTF OID space.
The relying party can compare against the OIDs it knows about.  This
would motivate relying parties to deal with the certificatePolicies
extension.  We should also assign an OID for this working group's
profiles.  What will relying parties do with policy OIDs they don't
understand?  Could have a list of required OIDs.  The
certificatePolicies extension is generally not marked critical.

John Volmer gave a presentation on FIPS 201, a U.S. government
smartcard deployment effort.

Tony led a discussion on the establishment of the 
International Grid Trust Federation (www.gridpma.org).
The founding members of IGTF are:
- EUGridPMA Chair David Groep (www.eugridpma.org)
- APGridPMA Chair Yoshio Tanaka (www.apgridpma.org)
- TAGPMA Chair Darcy Quesnel (www.tagpma.org)
The purpose of IGTF is to coordinate policies across PMA regions.  For
example, establish minimum operating requirements.  EUGridPMA manages
the "classic CA" profile.  Also under development is an experimental
CA profile (Yoshio Tanaka) and a KCA profile (Dane Skow, Fermilab).
The federation document and classic profile are available at
<http://www.eugridpma.org/igf/>.

David led a discussion of the IGTF Federation Document.  Each CA will
produce certificates under its local policy, the IGTF profile
(classic, KCA, etc.), and the one-statement certificate policies.
Whether the CAs will be required to include the IGTF OIDs in all
certificates they issue was tabled as a topic for later discussion.
Whether RFC 3647 style documents are required for all OIDs was
discussed.  The document currently specifies behaviors of the IGTF and
the member CAs and perhaps it could be split into multiple documents,
but the general preference is to keep it as one document.  Membership
includes a CP/CPS audit and a committment to be audited by other
members and to keep audit records for three years.  It was suggested
to include language on how member PMAs can be re-organized, though
perhaps this is already covered by section 12.1 (change procedures).
For voting, the quorum should be all 3 members.  The founders will
vote to approve the constitution on August 1.  The first work item
will be the coordination of policies at the next GGF meeting.
