DAIS session 1: Discussion of Implications of WSRF
--------------------------------------------------

GGF10, 11th March 2004

Chair: Norman Paton
Notes by Mario Antonioletti (mario@epcc.ed.ac.uk).

+-----------------------------------------------------------
Presentations available from:

	       https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/dais-wg
               Documents->GGF Documents/GGF10/Presentations

Make sure that the document filter is working correctly.
Unattributed statements in general belong to the speaker
at that point in time.
+-----------------------------------------------------------



Welcome by Norman Paton.
[See the Intro_to_discussion_of_implications_of_WSRF_Session 
 presentation on Grid Forge]

Reminder of the remaining DAIS sessions. 
Also the Information Dissemination BOF and the CIM Based Grid Schema 
sessions that are taking place at GGF10 and have some bearing on what 
DAIS is doing. 

Had a f2f which concluded that we should try to continue making progress
by:

	- refactoring specs to minimise dependencies on other specs.
	- refine core features: operations, semantics, metadata
	- explore design options

This session is about:

     - impact of WSRF on OGSA Data Services
     - mapping of specs on to WSRF, WS-CAF and WS-I

Aim to move forward by understanding the issues in mapping the spec.

Plan:

	- Allen Luniewski will talk about OGSA Data Services
	- Savas, Simon and Sastry will talk about mappings the DAIS 
	  specs to the different WS specifications 

----

Allen Luniewski: OGSA Data Services
[ See the Data_Services-Impact_of_WSRF presentation on Grid Forge]

Reminder what data services are about - all about virtualizing data.
Reviewed what Virtualizing data meant:

	 - describe an abstract view of some data
	 - over data resources and possibly other services 
	 - ... (other points in the slides)

Reviewed the original partitioning into interfaces.
Showed an abstract DataService example from last October - nothing has
changed in this high level view. Only the syntax has changed. 
(WLM - Work Load Managment on the slide)

The changes:

    - GSH/GSR have gone
      - Can now use WS-RenewableReference
    - DataDescription has now gone. 
      Can now use Properties from WS-Resource
    - WS Resource properties
      - DAIS will define common elements
      - extensions will have to be defined

Ann Chervenak: WS-Resource properties is associated with the resource
               and not the service?

Yes. 

Discussion about WS-Resource Properties and how these describe resources.

Savas Parastatidis: what is it meant to capture? Is the resource
                    properties the serialised version of the state of
                    the resource or metadata of the results from a
                    data resource?

Allen: my opionion is that it should supply the metadata and not the
       data itself. It's not clear the way it is described in the
       document.

Susan Malaika: at another meeting that same question was asked and the
               result was that it could be the data itself. It could
               be anything that you want but the guidance is that it
               should be metadata. Another point is to have guidance
               on how WSRF should be used.
...

     - Talk about lifetime in WSRF.
     - DataFactory has gone as an explicit interface and it should be
       a pattern.

OGSA discussed that yesterday where they said that the factory
operation was not particularly useful - it remains for us to see
whehter this also applies to DAIS.

WS-Agreement - at the last f2f we agreed not to build a dependency on
WS-Agreement as this effort would not converge in the same time frame
as the DAIS specs. The suggestion is that we pick and do something
that is simple with the goal that it will go in the same direction as
WS-Agreement.  My suggestion is to define agreement terms and the
negotiation will be the client specifying what it wants and the
service can then say yes/no and leave it at that.

Sastry Mallady: agreement is trying to do how to negotiate agreement
                and not how to express the agreement. That is the
                important thing. I think we are trying to push too far
                - walk before we can run. We should try to get ...

Jon: Agreement protocol does not say anything about the terms and
     unless you need negotiation you do not need agreement. It's worth
     looking how the agreement terms are defined and try to do it
     along those lines.

GRAAP person: I am a member of GRAAP have a first draft of
      WS-Agreement - need two more GGFs before we have a valid
      specification. ... we are also defining terms for data ... we
      suggested we should have a joint meeting with DAIS.

Norman: that was placed on the table but there was not enough time to
        arrange a meeting for thiss GGF.

GRAAP person: prior to last Friday there were 5 docs which have been
      merged. One of these dealt with terms,

...

Have the same idea of what a data service is. DataDescription gone but
there should be a DataProperties interface.

WSRF has a small impact on the DataServices. Changes are more syntax than
semantics.

Paul Watson: in the OGSI version it talked about using transient
             services to represent sessions and in the latest version
             that is still the case. Is that a mistake?

Allen: is that a problem?

Paul: I thought you'd moved ... is the proposal still correct though?

Allen: that is just an example and not a requirement?

Savas: do you need to create a new service to establish a session?

 ...

Norman: sessions could be represented using WSRF or some other mechanism.

...

Norman: are you using the term data service to be synonymous with a
        data resource?

Allen: yes.

Norman: I would not do that ... Allen and I know that I had some issues
        with the latest version of the document ...

...

GRAAP Person: what are QoX and what are the interfaces (describes some
      of the interfaces but is missing one)?

Allen: Quality of X and DataFactory.

GRAAP Person: you reference something called a WS-Resource which is a
       document which exists in the IBM web site but not anywhere else
       ... quoted some lines from the document .... point of
       clarification....

Allen: meant the set of specs ...

Susan: the point that you make is being addressed. The WSRF document
       was not one of the documents that was submitted to OASIS.

Norman: we will move on to the next section.

-----

[ See the presentation Mapping_of_DAIS_Session on Grid Forge.]

Simon Law: this came out of a conversation that started between me,
           Savas and Sastry. We all had differnt understanding on
           various points. We started working on this in order to
           submit an informational document to GGF11. Savas did most
           of the work to do the slides (that are being presented).

Issues considered are stated in the slides.

There were a load of issues that could be added to the list (in the
slides) but have not done so.

Having got the list of things that we wanted to consider we came up
with some scenarios worrying about how we can produce 

     - stateful interactions with resources and sessions, 
     - resource discovery, 
     - metadata, 
     - third party references.

Will only deal with Stateful interactions with resources in this
presentation.

Put in a slide about context to establish its definition. Context
allows you to identify "what" resource you are interacting with and
"how" you are interacting?

Susan: are you ignoring the context that is used to identify clients?

Simon: we have not taken that into account. That is a useful point to note.

...

Talk about some scenarios. Want to use scenarios as a discussion
forum.  Savas, Sastry and you will interact with the slides as 
I present them.

Considered four approaches

	   - explicit contextualisation.
	   - implicit contextualisation.
	   - combination of the above two
	   - contextualisation with WSRF

Have some service and a consumer. Consumer constructs SOAP message.
Going to get some information from the resource. The object is to
identify the resource.

The query happens, the result set is identified and the service
associates an identity with that result. This identity is exposed as
it is returned to the client. What happens to this information is what
makes this explicit.

The comsumer then chooses to perform another operation on that data, a
sort. It is explicit because the client explicitly identifies the
resource on which that operation is going to operate (it is in the
body of the soap message),

If you make it a little bit more complicated - the name could also be
used with another service if that service interprets that data with
the same name. The data could be replicated or they could be
interacting with the result set. In each case the id is passed in the
body.

Sastry: start with a single consumer and a single service and then you
        add additional services

Inderpal Narang: how is the replica (end point) recognised?

This is recognised out of band. The way that the identity is matched
to the resource is of no concern to us.

Sastry: it is up to the implementation.

Savas: it does not matter to travel agent (a) or (b) with a flight
        number.

Inderpal: how did the client know which service go to?

Savas: it's part of the application logic.

Peter Kuntz: from the clients name there is an expectation is unique.

Savas: that is why I chose a urn - global and unique.

Peter: so if you go to the wrong place ....

it may do something unexpected ...

Susan: you expect this to be used with account numbers ... you would
       not expect different services to understand it?

Savas: it depends on applications domain.

Simon: Regan was saying that you could use federation and not use a
       global name space.

Susan: you should put more in your urn (as represented in the slide) ...

David Martin: but you are now moving into federation and are going out
              of scope.  Do you see this as part of this?


Simon: the federation of the name spaces would be handled separately?

David: you would need a mapping routine....

Savas: but that is a naming issue rather than a requirement issue.

Simon: the other interesting thing happens if you want to tell other
       people about the result that you have created. What is passed
       to the second client is the actual identifier and the end point
       to use to interact with this resource.

Sastry: it could just pass the name ...

Simon: you are getting ahead of me ... the information is being passed
       very explicitly... it is the same as the last one - we are
       pointing out that you have to pass these two bits of
       information.

...

This is a resource (not a WS-Resource)

Savas: these examples show how you could do things with/without
       WS-Resource.

Simon: moving onto explicit contextualisation you pass the identity to
       a second consumer and the second consumer will use some out of
       band mechanism to determine which end point this type of
       service can deal with this URN.

...

Could have used a registry. 

Savas: it could be a convention - it does not have to be a real registry.


Simon: now we will do the same thing with implicit contextualisation.
       Now using the soap header to provide some context-state. The
       infrastructure worries about identifying the context.

Guy Rixon: in the original slide you used the client to identify the
           context ...

Simon: all we are saying in this slide is that the infrastructure is
       able to insert context. The context flows back and there is not
       much content in the body. The implcation is that the service is
       now holding context that is identified at the service.

Implicit contextualisation - so now we want to sort the result
set. Now the data is identified by the context provided by the
infrastructure.

When we want to use two different end-points. It's the same situation
- as long as the infrastructure is imposing the context and that
context is valid at the end point.

Peter: the mapping is happening at the service ... but you have to
       coordinate that?

Sastry: that is done by the infrastructure. We did not want to show
        it. This is not relevant...

Peter: by coordination I mean you have 2 services, the first knows
       about the context - so how does the second one know about that
       context?

Savas: when the replication took place the context may have been passed.

Sastry: the context could be held by a third service ... there are
        many ways in which this could be done.

Simon: we take these comments and widen the scope. All the points can
       be added to these scenarios.

Tom:...?

Context is associated with a particular resource so you could have
multiple resources and there is no way you can identify ... there are
implications on choosing these desired functions.

Dave Berry: what is this like from the point of the programmer? Do you
            have to specify which context to include in the message or
            is there some magic?

Savas: there could be .. it depends on the tooling that is
       available. You may want to specify the context in which case an
       operation acts ....

Dave B: tooling could hide or reveal ...

...

Indrpal: there are lifetime issues?

Sastry:which will be provided by whoever is providing about the
       context.

Inderpal: I worry about the replication ....

Sastry: but that is not the main point here ... there are many ways in
        which the data/context could be replicated

...

Peter: I do not understand the difference with the previous example

Savas: it's whether you treat identity as first class citizens or you
       hide this.

Peter: that is an API matter ....

Savas: you may need to know that identity for long term storage.

...

Simon: can build tools to hide a lot of these issues. This exercise is
       trying to allow us to understand how we feel about these
       different models.

Norman: there is a higher level timing things ... we need to get to
        the end.

Simon: we are ok.

We now have some context but we are explicitly identifying which
resource we are interacting with. Have to be careful here because we
are blurring the what and the how. You are saying that you want to
interact with this resource and this context.

Sastry: this is how you identify which resource you want to interact.

In this context the explicit context is identifying the resource that
you are interacting with.

Thomas Soddermann (?): this complicates transactions ... how do we use
                        transactions...

We are not re-assigning the resource ... that's a good question ...
what happens if you re-assign resources. Also, what information is
part of that context? Is transaction part of that context ... is
security part of the context?

Savas: the context in this case does not identify the resource it
       models the interaction. In the same way that in a transaction
       you can state to include a resource with a particular
       transaciton. In this scenario we are only one data resource.

Simon: we need to be able to consider what happens when you add/remove
       resources.

Thomas (another one): it's not different from before...

Savas: we are presenting the service with a context and the service
       will associate the resource with that context ... Sastry
       earlier suggested that the service will change the context
       which is not my view ...
...

It is responsibility of the service to mantain the association between
the service and the dta resource.

...

Simon: The context could be changing but it does not have to change.

The last approach uses WSRF. The select goes into the service. The
result is produced and the result contains an end point reference.

The SOAP header makes a call to sort. The header contains the end
point reference that identifies the resource.

...

Savas: should have possibly put an opaque block - the consumer cannot
       access that data?

Guy: can the information returned to the client go in the header as
     opposed to the body?

Simon: the application may want to deal with that EPR and deal with it.

Savas: the spec specifies that from now on you are going to use the
       EPR in the header ...

Allen: this is an API allows you to access the data.

Can you return more than one end-point?

Simon: why not?

...

Simon: what happens when you want to communicate the result to another
       consumer as an EPR so that the second consumer can access the
       data.

Allen: the application is taking the EPR and saying invoke that  and 
       getting that as the target ....

Simon: yes.

Dave B: is there a gurantee if that the EPR is still in its own
        lifetime that it will still be able to interpret it?

Savas: it's the same as adding stuff yourself ... the question is
       whether you can tamper with the the EPR... you could put
       anything in the SOAP server. It's an XML element in the body in
       the body or the header ...

...


Simon: this is an on-going discussion (summary points can be found on
       the slide).

Sastry: it's a stepping point so that we can model a session.

Peter: I'm looking forward to the other scenarios ... it's way too
       complicated.

Simon: which may be a conclusion ... but we are not drawing the
       conclusion yet.

Savas: in scenario 1 everyitng seems very close. Once you start going
       to the other scenarios the advantages of the different
       framework become more apparent.

Dave Pearson: would be see whether Allen sees any conflicts ....?

Allen: I see none.

...

Dave B: thinking from a programmer ... if looking at WSRF I can look
        at the EPR for the other schemes what do I use?

Savas: that is a policy issue.

Allen: Is there a URL to a URN mapping scenario? You may wish to resolve
       the logical name to the protocol specific end point.

Savas: that is registries which we are addressing.

...

Norman: thanks guys .... you can see there are things to discuss. What
        happens next?

Simon: trying to write down what we have discussed and put it in a
       document which we can discuss and submit to a future GGF.

Savas: there is a document that you can look at.




