GGF12 OGSA Outreach session
===========================

Sept. 22 (Wed), 9-10:30am, QC
note: Hiro Kishimoto

* Early discussion by Hiro
GGF IP policy, sign-in sheet

* Hiro goes over slides on WG status, v1 document comments
summary, and v2 process

* Ian goes over slides on roadmap document.

Malcom: What does each green box mean on this "A Perspective on SOA
	Specifications"?

Jay: This slide is presented at the last OGSA F2F meeting in SF bay
     area. It is one of our member's view and I have much mature
     version of this slide. 

Tom: Picture will become a little bit different if you put
     dependencies among specs.

Jay: I already did a little about dependencies. E.g. WSRF and WSN sit
     a side each other. Question is; which is core for our activities?

Tom: Ws-address is now submitted to W3C.

Jay: Let's create short texts then stop there since nobody knows
     the answer. Let's create observational document in addition to
     roadmap document.

Malcolm: Thinking about a path from architecture to specifications,
	some standards may become manure too rapidly and they can be
	totally useless.

Ian: Another specs like CIM is also important for us.

Tom: WS-I profile is also important. (The profile is already out but
     adoption curve is rather lengthy.

Ian: An adoption curves are different in science and in industry
     (industry must be slow).

Tom: We should make investment to stability.
     
Jay: I would like to ask another SDOs what they think about these
     dependencies. We should also ask ourselves if we should have such
     dependencies? 
     We can focus on low level and concrete specs on early stages. But
     they do not have not much functionality and are not sufficient
     for high level grid requirements.

Ian: It is a discussion of "top down approach" v.s. "bottom up
     approach." 

Malcolm: I see a few waiting things. Cyclic dependency, Naming, etc.
	
Ian: Priority is important.

Tom: I think a sub-group should work on dependency/priority.
    
Jay; WSRF and WSN are foundation for other functions (they are like
     instruction sets). And concept of OGSI are being preserved.

C: GGF is the top of specs pyramid.

Jay: GGF is pioneer. But since this space is highly politicalized,
     GGF cannot have over arching role here.
     A federation of SDOs will do this architecture things and GGF
     should strongly support this federation.

Jay: OGSA-WG proposing 1) OGSA core, 2) design team, 3) WGs
     formation. How do you feel?

Dane: Top-down and bottom-up will have gaps when they met. Identify
       them then fill and fix them.

Malcolm: I think framework is manure. Big problem of the infrastructure
	is that definition of terms is different (e.g. name of
	terms). This is quite a distractive. It will slow down
	everything.

Ian: How to co-work to go farther?
    
Malcolm: Rename terms will take very long time and will ask DAIS to
	reorganize them. 
	
Jay: Does OGSA preclude or not preclude any term definition?

Malcolm: I prefer waiting for completion of naming discussion. 

David Snelling: OGSA is facing a risk of stepping another one's toes.
		If we step on some toes, then we should simply get
		step back.

Dave Berry: At the first time, data design team took time to
            understand each other, you can do this to make agreement.

Jay: If you want to creating new WG, you should point to any
     activities relevant to grid activities.

Dave Snelling: All activities should not be standards one.
	       Propitiatory developments is enough, given bringing them
	       to SDOs later.

Hiro; GGF is usecase driven and it is our strength.

Dave Snelling: High level SDO collaborations are necessary.
       So far SDOs collaborations are p2P relations only.
       Now process is started, things are happening.

Jay: About common management model, it is shifting GGF focused model
     to generic one.

Fred: Since CMM-WG does not want to do any duplicate efforts, thus we
      have merged with WSDM TC. Later today we will have a cross WG
      session.

Jay: At the last F2F, WSDM has expressed their interest to naming.

Andrea: WSDM is model agnostic. But CGS-WG has done very good job
	input to DMTF CIM 2.8. 
	
     


