INFOD notes from GGF16 - 14th Feb 2006
--------------------------------------

The lack of Susan's chocolates was noted.

Steve Fisher gave the introductory talk

Stephen Davey gave a talk prepared with Ronny Fehling explaining the
steps to go through to use INFOD.

Steve Fisher concluded with our plans.

The following items came up in discussion (as noted by Chris
Kantarjiev)

- ws-eventing should not be under consideration. It is not a public
  spec.

- Where is data sent at the end of the animation job? infod is only
  sending the notification of status change, not the animation data.

- How do we name things, like the information in the
  wsinfod:RegisterDataVocabulary? Our intent is that it is the EPR of
  the service that will deal with it, rather than a 'name' that has
  some implied semantics but might be misspelled.

- Should we really allow VocabularyVersion to be an arbitrary string?

- Are we starting to develop a language for the Data_Constraint?  The
  data constraint language is not defined, but is tied to the property
  vocabulary language...

- Is there a restriction on the XML schema that is passed in,
  requiring it to be flat? Not really, since we're not defining the
  data constraint language in the spec - it's just something we're
  passing along but is meant to be understood only by the publisher
  (and the registry, enough to match things up).

- Have we defined vocabularies for Schedule/Policies/Processing? No,
  but we have some ideas about what should be there.

- Referring to the presentation of Stephen Davey: are any of these
  steps optional? You don't need to define
  properties/propertyValues. But all the rest are needed.  Should we
  be trying to come up with a version that has fewer steps? The
  descriptions of the vocabularies are complicating things. Some
  reordering of the material may help.

- We should start thinking about the implications of the interop fests
  that people are discussing, even though our implementation is some
  2 years away.

- OGSA architecture docs don't mention INFOD!



