GGF7 DRMAA meeting Thursday March 6, 2:00 - 3:30P
Keio Plaza Hotel, Fuji CR, Tokyo

Meeting Agenda

Review GGF Meeting guidelines
	Intellectual Property rules
	Attendance sheet
	Meeting minutes will be kept
Introduction to DRMAA
	Why DRMAA?
	The DRMAA-WG and DRMAA charter
	DRMAA scope and purpose
Introduction to the DRMAA specification 1.0 proposal

--------------------------
Meeting comments:

- Security is identified as an Issue in the presentation, but is it
addressed?	DRMAA is tighly bound to the DRM system and inherits the (lack
of) security at this level. DRMAA may not ever address this and the
reference should be removed from the "issues" slide of the presentation in
subsequent use.

- Define in the spec what is meant by a "job".
	A job is whatever is created when you use the interface; it is
implementation dependent. It is what you get back when you use DRMAA run
job.

- Implementation dependency is unfortunate for interoperability, how can
this be mitigated?
	This situation may not be easy to address within the bounds of the GGF
process. But an API compliance test may be an answer. The JAVA Community
Process uses tests as an integral element to validate interoperability.
While the GGF does not have a similar spec/test approach, a DRMAA API test
spec and/or tester implementation is something the DRMAA group could
consider.

- Files staging is an optional parameter, why?
	There is a defined parameter for file staging which a capable DRM system my
may support; however not all DRM systems have native support for file
staging, so this was made an optional parameter.

-------------------------
Post meeting comments:

In a discussion between Bill Nitzberg (Scheduling Area Director) and John
Tollefsrud, Bill noted that the DRMAA Working Group needs to persist as an
organization to support any necessary action throughout the document
approval process. Note that review for a final document approval occurs not
sooner than six months following the close of the public comment period.
This period can extend to two years, and can be renewed. Bill said it is
fine for the working group to be substantially in a quiet phase during this
period.

