Application Developers and Users Research Group (APPS-RG)
Area: Applications, Programming Models and Environments

Version of October 21, 2004


Contacts:

Chairs:
		Simon Cox <sjc@soton.ac.uk>
                Tom Hinke <Thomas.H.Hinke@nasa.gov>
		Thilo Kielmann <kielmann@cs.vu.nl>

Secretary:
		Shantenu Jha <s.jha@ucl.ac.uk>


Chair emeritus:
		Ed Seidel <eseidel@cct.lsu.edu>
		

Area: Applications, Programming Models and Environments (APME)
Area Directors:
		Craig Lee  <craig@rushe.aero.org>
		Satoshi Matsuoka <matsu@is.titech.ac.jp>

Information:

General Discussion Email: apps-rg@ggf.org
Email Archive: http://www.ggf.org/mail_archive/apps-rg/maillist.html
Web Site: http://forge.gridforum.org/projects/apps-rg
Web Master: Tom Hinke  <Thomas.H.Hinke@nasa.gov>

Purpose:

The objective of the Application Developers and Users Research Group
(APPS-RG) is to facilitate the exploitation of grid technologies by
application developers and users. In support of this objective, the
APPS-RG will assess the nature of the applications that are using grid 
technology and the nature of the support the grid is providing to these 
applications. The intent is to inform application developers and users 
about what is possible through the use of grid technology and to inform 
the developers of grid technology about what improvements are needed in 
grid technology, best practices and standards. It is also the intent to 
ensure that the widest possible range of application domains and 
applications within these domains are considered.

The APPS-RG will also serve as an application umbrella group for 
reporting on the spectrum of evolving applications requiring high-level 
functionality leveraging a complex composition of services. It 
will also report on the capabilities inherent in the services and tools 
needed to support these applications. This complements the work of the 
domain-oriented applications groups and the GGF standards-oriented 
working groups, which are primarily focused on a single application 
domain or a single standards domain, by looking at the integration and 
composition of multiple standards and protocols in the context of a 
spread of applications. In this role, the APPS-RG will do the following:

- Provide a forum for reporting upon application's use of grid technology 
  and identifying gaps between what was desired and what was provided in 
  the underlying grid technology.
- Provide a forum for reporting upon services that are maturing and can 
  support complex applications.
- Provide a forum for the cross-fertilization of the exploitation of grid 
  technologies across a spectrum of domains.
- Provide a forum for developing and presenting case studies for 
  applications that represent good examples of the types that utilize the 
  integration and composition of services.

The APPS-RG will also provide a meeting place for application 
developers and users who are not served by a domain-specific 
working/research group. As such, it will provide a forum where issues 
and problems can be shared and connections made with others with 
similar problems and issues.

APPS-RG seeks to inform the general GGF audience about "issues top lists"
identified by application developers and users.


Milestones:

1. In support of the need to gather information on grid applications, 
organize from one to three grid applications workshops per year 
involving other GGF groups as appropriate, depending upon the specific 
objective of the workshop. The output of these workshops will be 
documented in some archival form such as a proceedings, a GGF 
informational document or a journal article or special issue.

2. Dedicate a portion of at least one regular APPS-RG meeting at each 
GGF, to a birds-of-a-feather period, in which application developers 
and users can identify themselves, their applications and their 
problems and successes, with the goal of allowing APPS-RG members to 
identify others with similar problems and issues. The objective is to 
facilitate additional off-line discussions among those with similar 
interests.
