Minutes for Glue Joint Session


Agenda:
Glue-WG
OGSA-BES-WG
OSGA Resource Managment
JSDL-WG
RM-WG
Open Discussion


A suggested outline for each presentation was shown.

Glue-WG presentation

Question: Do you model security policies?
Answer: Yes, VOs, groups and roles are advertised.

OSGA Resource Management presentation

RM-WG Presentation

Question: Has anyone looked at the DMFTs virtualization and clustering work group?
Answer: It is a closed document but will be open as a draft soon.  As there is an agreement with OGF, some things can be exposed.

Question: Do people here have an interested in the first set of drafts.
Answer: Yes.

In July and December there are DMFT working group meetings.

Question: How will the reference model provide scheduling information and how do you model the thing (service) that does the advertising.
Answer: It should be more virtual, you are modeling what is behind the service rather than what is being advertised.

Comment: Grid users need to know the information through the API.   To be able to do that you need to understand what is going on underneath

Comment: The focus is on the components and the sets of relationships. Need feedback for the properties and attributes required.

Comment: If the glue group needs this and that etc. it would then be input for your work.

Comment: The difference is the distinction of the system and the components. How do I describe a system?

Comment: Relationship between the reference model, glue provides the input with properties and attributes.

Comment: Highlighted Glue side, What Glue doesn't care about the reference model does.

Questions: How can we ensure that the entities match?

Comment: We are at three different levels and need to start discussing it now.

Question: What are the actions items?

Comment: Every interface has an implied model.

Comment: The entities must agree with the reference model.

Question: How must does the schema work overlap with the OSGA information model.

Comment: The JSDL session they will be talking about XQuery.

Comment: Wednesday OGSA information model session, looking at Glue 1.2.

Question: What is the common areas between the Design team and Glue. Answer: Design team is doing the meta model and is doing the BEs as an example. If the Glue model satisfies then it can be used.

Comment: Translation on works if there are things that you can translate.

