LSG RG meeting on 25 Jun 03 at  10am
GGF 8 Seattle.

Co-chair: David Angulo
Co-chair: Abbas Farazdel
Minutes taken by: Larry Ang

Abbas’s presentation :

Both industry and academia are joining from all over the world.
Recap of the motivation of the LSG-RG. Life Science can benefit greatly from the community’s work. The merger of IT and Life Sciences has led to the emergence of a combined community around the world. Problem is the heterogeneity and complexity which has made it difficult for scientists to make use of computing to further their work. The answer lies in the clever use of grid infrastructure because it’s virtual, integrated, open and autonomic.

Fulfillment progress of LSG Charter (our contract with GFSG):

a.	Abbas reminded all on the difference between a RG and WG.
b.	Done= GGF 6 discussion of RG charter.
c.	Done= Actively engage the community of life scientists in Oct 02- Mar 03 
d.	Done= LS Symposium 
e.	Survey of grid activity in Life sciences : prelim report done; but more work need to be done
f.	Prepare a survey of LD specific requirements for grids (to be done by Sep 03 or sooner) Prelim Analysis done but more details need to be done.
During the last LSG Symposium, 3 “bullets” ie identify clear examples, identify the challenges of grid and identify linkages to the other RGs and WGs.
We should try to map the LS Apps into the current and new GGF WG’s and RG’s. 
So far, there are 15 submissions for the Grid Systems for LS in the special issue of NGC this year. (New Generation Computing). In conjunction with this, there will be a workshop which will have a number of topics for presenters and discussions to focus on.
Agenda for today: 
g.	Consolidate LS examples
h.	Grid Challenges
i.	Linkages to other working and research groups.
Looking ahead to tomorrow’s agenda, Abbas highlighted the following:
j.	Reference architectures for Life Science Grids
k.	LSG requirements document 
l.	Workflows. (and portals) – important in Life Sciences
m.	Next steps eg GGF 9 in Chicago (Oct 03 – only working groups; can have workshops or topics, GGF 10 in Frankfurt in Mar 04 – also WG only; GGF11 in Hawaii Jun 04).
Because of the varied applications of LSGs, Abbas thought we might need to divide into sub-groups of applications e.g. medical informatics, imaging, etc
Abbas showed a list of challenges posed by Life Sciences.
In terms of committees, or focus areas, some discussions took place on which ones are higher in prioriy . Mark Miller of SDSC volunteered to send out Excel documents on Life sciences that he had captured so far.
 The meeting ended at 1130 hours.

Recorded by Larry Ang, Secretary. LSG RG. 
