REPORTING ERRORS IN PUBLISHED DOCUMENTS

Published OGF documents in the GFD series may have errors.  Errors may
be quite small (such as a spelling mistake), or quite large (such as a
perceived shortcoming in a protocol).  The OGF welcomes reports of
document errata, and can receive them via email or Web page submission
at www.ogf.org.

Errata reports will be revised by the OGF Editor, then communicated to
the document authors/editors for their recommendation concerning the
errata disposition.

Errata reports should not be made anonymously, so that the
authors/editors can have discussion with whoever reports the potential
errors, to insure the nature of the error is understood.

Because every OGF document goes through a complete review process
prior to publication, the errata process should not be used as a
substitute for thorough document review prior to publication.  For
example, suggestions about useful additional sections, interesting
references to related work, and criticism of the depth of examples
used, would probably not result in changes to a published document.
Instead, errata reports should be directed at either relatively minor
editorial problems (spelling, punctuation, layout...)  or at technical
omissions or lack of clarity in a recommendation.


Errata Process
--------------

We reinforce that the authors/editors of a document (the people listed
on the first page) have ongoing permanent responsibility for the
document.  They are the first point of contact for any errata reports,
and any errata reports should be confirmed with them before being
acted upon.

We further note that the authors/editors listed on the first page of a
document are considered interchangeable for the purposes of the errata
process -- that is, decisions communicated by one author will be
considered authoritative.  This puts the responsibility on the
document authors/editors to communicate among themselves, as well as
with group members and others as needed, to make decisions concerning
their document.


Three types of fixes are envisioned:

1. Editorial fixes: updates to a document which are not widely
announced or publicized.  This category might include headers/footers,
spelling, formatting, or simple wording changes for clarity.

2. Minor technical fixes: updates to a document which are not simply
editorial.  For example, an update to an XML schema due or addition to
a protocol, to bring the document into agreement with current
practice.  All such changes will be confirmed with the author(s).

3. Major technical Fixes.  Such fixes will often require additional
technical review.  For example, if a proposed recommendation has
elements that do not work in practice, or are otherwise found
insufficient, there will need to be a decision whether to fix the
document, or instead seek to write an updated document that will
obsolete the old document.  This decision will be made in cooperation
with authors/editors, the OGF Editor, the cognizant area directors,
and GFSG (others as needed).

The OGF Editor will oversee the errata process, but can ask
authors/editors, area directors, external reviewers, or others for
assistance as needed.

Editorial fixes should be reported within the first six months after a
document is published by the OGF.  Beyond that timeframe, the OGF
Editor might reject changes, instead leaving the document in place
as-is.  The basis for the decision is whether minor changes justify
the possibility of multiple different versions of a document being
used by different people, who might have obtained the document from
the OGF before it was updated.

Editorial fixes applied within the first month after publication will
generally not be publicly announced to the OGF community.  Any other
changes to a document, whether major or minor, will be announced using
the same mechanism as for a newly published document (i.e., email to
the OGF community, etc.).

Whenever a document is updated, even for minor editorial updates, the
document header will be adjusted to reflect the most recent update.
The date of update should appear in the upper right side of the
document's first page, under any prior date.  For very minor updates,
especially those within the first month after publication, no
additional information needs to be added to the document.

For all other updates, an errata report will be added to the document
itself.  Recommended practice is to put an errata report labeled as
"Document Change History" on the first page of the document, directly
under the copyright statement and before the abstract.  A brief report
on what was changed is sufficient, along with the date.  If a more
detailed discussion is desired, the Document Change History can refer
to a later section where the update is discussed in more detail.

This errata process is not intended to be a mechanism for obsoleting
prior versions of a document.  If substantial updates are needed to a
document, a new document should be created and brought through the
complete editorial review process.  When a new document obsoletes an
old document, that old document will be edited (header only) to
indicate it has been obsoleted by a new document.


To summarize the decision path for the errata process,

- If there are only minor spelling, typographical changes, etc.,
reports should go to the document authors/editors, then to the OGF
Editor for approval and implementation.  If reports are delivered to
other parties first, they should be passed to the OGF Editor who will
make a reasonable effort to contact the authors/editors of the
document.

- If there are changes to the document that do not affect conformance
(that is, the changes will not impact any implementations based on the
document), the authors/editors must approve the specific change, which
will be put in place by the OGF Editor.  Minimally, the WG/RG/CG chair
and a cognizant area director will be consulted before putting the
change into place.

- If there are changes to the document that might affect conformance,
they will be discussed among the authors/editors, the OGF Editor, and
others as appropriate including the WG/RG/CG chair, area director, and
GFSG.  A decision as to whether to update the document will be based
on the length of time since the current document was published, the
scope of the proposed change, and any other factors deemed appropriate
by the OGF Editor.  Changes deemed too substantial for this errata
process will instead require submission of a new document, to obsolete
the old.

Authority to accept or reject proposed changes to a document is placed
first with the document's authors/editors, who must make a timely
decision concerning any errata reports (by responding in writing
within 30 days).

Authority on how to handle proposed changes approved by the document's
authors/editors rests with the OGF Editor, who will consult with group
chairs, area directors and others at his/her discretion.

Conflict or disagreement concerning the handling of errata will be
resolved following the same procedures as other disagreements within
the OGF, by escalating to the GFSG and, if necessary, beyond.  Any
reasonable effort will be made to accommodate errata reports, and to
seek mutually agreeable resolution to the handling of document errata.
