GWD-C
SEC S3A-RG                                              Shawn Mullen,  IBM
                                                        Matt Crawford, FNAL
                                                        Markus Lorch,  VT
                                                        Dane Skow,     FNAL

                                                                 June 2003
Web Site: http://www.ppdg.net/pa/ppdg-pa/siteaa/GGF-SiteAAA-RG/  
          

         Grid Authentication Authorization and Accounting 
                  Requirements Research Document


The purpose of this research  paper is to collect and codify the  requirements
of  existing  grid  resource  sites  with  respect to the  acceptance  of grid
credentials  for  access  to their  services.  Where  those  requirements  are
non-uniform,  or even mutually  exclusive,  the group will strive to recommend
hooks  which grid  toolkits or  applications  should  provide for the sites to
insert their own implementations of their requirements.

This research paper is an  informational  or community  practices GGF document
which grid  application  and library coders can use as a reference  guide, and
suggestions for future development work in GGF working groups.



Index

Chapter 1..........................Site Authentication Requirements 
Chapter 2..........................Site Authorization Requirements
Chapter 3..........................Site Accounting and Audit Requirements




Chapter 1  Site Authentication Requirements 

1.1 Terminology and definitions

The following terms are used in this document as described here.

1.1.1
"User secrets" refers to values intended to be known only by the user,
known by the user and an authentication infrastructure, or known only
to an authentication infrastructure and employed on the user's behalf
after the user has authenticated with some other secret(s).

1.1.2
To sidestep such questions as whether "a day" means eight hours or 24
hours and just how long a month is, we will deal in seconds but not
quibble over implementation variances at the 10% or 20% level.

1.1.3
Credentials are assumed to have lifetimes which bound their period of
validity. "Long-lived" credentials have lifetimes of 1,000,000
seconds (1 megasecond or 1 Ms) or more. "Short-lived" credentials
have lifetimes of 100,000 seconds (0.1 Ms) or less. Lifetimes between
those limits are "intermediate." The terms long-lived and short-lived
may also be applied to the secrets employed by a user to acquire
credentials, although the only short-lived user secrets known to be
commonly employed are one-time (or "single-use") authenticators.

(Conversions: 0.1 Ms is a bit more than a day; 1 Ms is a bit less
than fortnight.)

1.1.4
If a credential's lifetime can be extended by the user, using no more
proof of identity than the credential itself, this is considered
"renewal" of the credential, while if the process of extending the
lifetime requires measures equivalent to those employed in its
initial acquisition, we consider the result a new credential.

1.1.5
We specifically do not consider "post-dated" credentials -- those
with lifetimes that begin at some point later than the time of the
authentication act. Neither do we consider the relative strengths of
cryptographic protocols, algorithms, and key lengths. We assume they
are always designed, selected and implemented appropriately.


1.2. Identity

1.2.1
Sites will generally make authorization decisions on an aggregate
basis, any Virtual Organization (VO).
However, at times it will be necessary to set access rights at the
granularity of a single user. Sites must reserve the right, and
preserve the ability, to set authorization at this level. Also,
incident handling requires the ability to identify the legitimate
owner of credentials presented during transactions under
investigation. 

  Accordingly, every set of authentication credentials SHOULD be tied to the
  identity of an individual, because this provides stronger security
  by way of audit ability, revocation, and problem determination.
  However, there may be occasion to forfeit these benefits in order to provide 
  temporary and generic identities.

For example, an Internet cafe could provide temporary (very limited lifetime)
credentials authorizing use of grid resources based solely on the fact
that access was purchased.  Such an identity may be as generic as
"Customer 24."

Similar identities 
 - action traceable to a specific organization within a specific VO
 - action traceable to a specific VO
 - action purely anonymous

1.2.2
Secure anonymous communications may still be allowable, and
appropriate, for functions that do not require user authentication.

For example, access to Grid resources is purchased and anonymous
access if give; the user may still require secure conversation
because the results of the data derived may have value.


1.3. Assurance

1.3.1.
An authentication system may provide multiple methods for a user to
perform their initial authentication, and these methods may differ in
their convenience, resistance to attack, and risks of exposure of
secrets. Even when an implementation offers its users only one
method, it may not be clear to relying parties which method it is.
Since some inverse correlation does exist between convenience and
strength of authentication, there may be inducements to allow and
employ multiple levels of authentication if sites make some class of
services available through weaker but less burdensome authentication
methods.

1.3.2.
We define three levels of authentication strength:

   Strong - long-lived reusable secrets are not transmitted over the
   network.

   Encrypted - long-lived reusable secrets are transmitted on the
   network in encrypted form. The encryption techniques (including
   key management) MUST be of sufficient strength that secrets are
   unlikely to be recovered by a hostile party before their
   expiration.

   Cleartext - reusable identifying information (it would be an
   eageration to call it a secret) is transmitted in the clear.
   Cleartext authentication is considered equivalent in trength to no
   authentication at all.

1.3.4.
We recognize following modes of storage of users' long-term secrets, each
with its own set of vulnerabilities:

1.3.4.1  What you know
   Mental - secrets are held in users' own memory (PIN or password).

1.3.4.1  What you have
   Secured - secrets are stored in electronic devices with credible
   protection against disclosure to unauthorized parties, even in the
   event of user carelessness.

   Stored - secrets are stored in electronic devices in a manner that
   relies on users' willing diligence in protecting them against
   disclosure e.g. Biometric, or smartcard.

1.3.5.  
It is not possible to give a strict ranking of storage
modes discussed section 1.3.4 relative to safety without asking
and answering a number of questions about the details of the secrets,
their storage, and their registration as the users' authentication
information. Also, users may perform unsafe actions (knowingly or
unknowingly) which place their secrets at much greater risk of
disclosure.

   Authentication strength MUST be mechanically deducible from
   credentials. The method used to perform authentication SHOULD be
   deducible from credentials.

1.3.6.
There are a number of cases where processes running on a machine need
to authenticate to other processes. Automated processes may have to
act as authenticated clients and users may wish to have automatic
software ("cron jobs") that require automatic authentication. All of
these should be somehow restricted such that theft of credentials
from an individual machine does not easily permit their reuse
elsewhere. In either case, secrets will be of the "stored" class and
must be considered to be stored in cleartext form, regardless of any
measures which obfuscate them.

   Authenticated identities of automated client processes SHOULD
   include identification of the machine which is intended to have
   access to the authentication secret.

   Authentication methods based on stored secrets SHOULD indicate the
   machine from which they were used. If they do not, then this
   information MUST be available in auditable records.


1.4. Lifetimes

1.4.1.
All forms of digital credential in common use are subject to possible
theft and misuse. The probability of such an event is monotonically
nondecreasing with time. The countermeasures against eventual
credential theft are expiration and revocation. Neither measure alone
is sufficient to prevent all misuse, nor is the combination of the
two.

1.4.1.1
   User authentication credentials MUST NOT be valid for more than
   1 Ms if there is no method for checking for revocation. User
   authentication credentials SHOULD be renewed or checked for
   revocation every 0.1 Ms.

1.4.1.2
   Authorities issuing revocable credentials MUST publish the
   procedures for initiating revocation. In the case of X.509
   certificates, each revocable certificate SHOULD include a pointer
   to such procedures. These procedures MUST include the loation and
   publication frequency of revocation information and an upper bound
   on the time required to act on a revocation request.

1.4.1.3
   It SHOULD be possible for authority parties other than the credential issuer
   or the credential owner to initiate revocation, under some circumstances. 
   For example the authority that vetted the identity of the user.
   The processing time bound above may not apply to third-party requests for 
   revocation.    

1.4.2.
The lifetime of authentication secrets is a separate parameter from
the lifetime of credentials.

1.4.2.1
   User secrets stored mentally SHOULD have a lifetime of 50 Ms or
   less. Some environments or applications may demand shorter
   lifetimes, down to perhaps 10 Ms.  These times may vary depending
   on the strength of the password enforced by the password requirements
   of the system.

1.4.2.2
   Secured user secrets may reasonably have lifetimes of 100 Ms or
   more depending on the securing technology.

1.4.2.3
   Stored user secrets SHOULD NOT be valid for more than 1 Ms, and if
   valid longer than that, their associated credentials MUST declare
   that fact.

1.4.2.4
   The above lifetimes are relevant to both the strength of the
   password and the strength of the cypto-analysis or password
   cracking tools.  These lifetimes should be adjusted to reflect the
   current state of the art in these two related technologies.


Chapter 2  Site Authorization Requirements

2.1. Authorization Requirements 

2.1.1. Clarity of AuthZ 
Assertions of membership's roles and groups in a VO MUST be able to be 
validated by relying parties. Currency of this information SHOULD 
not exceed 1Ms.

2.1.1.2 The Resource Administrator Authorizes Groups and Roles
VO attributes describing the roles and groups MUST follow a
published standard, agreed upon at least within the domain of the
VO. This consistence gives the Authorizor or Resource Administrator a
manageable and trusted view of the membership pool.  The administrator
MUST be able to trusts the concurrency of the roles and groups.  This
removes the need for Authorizer to have an understanding of each
member.  The Authorizer needs to only understand the groups and roles
within this assigned membership pool.

2.1.1.2.1
This standard MUST include:
        format of the attribute credential
        a definition of all attributes
        method of determining validity of credential
        method of determining expiration of credential

2.1.1.3
VOs SHOULD provide a method providing membership and role/group 
information for a given user.  An example of this might be extended
attributes within the certificate.

2.1.2. Transparency of AuthZ information / policy 
Certain groups or roles may require additional authorization before membership
information  is released (so as to not leak  information  about which accounts
are privileged).

2.1.3. Protection of AuthZ info
Alterations  of the  information  should  only  be  possible  through  secure,
authenticated access paths using procedures such that the sites are willing to
trust the role / membership information returned. This requirement may involve
a CP/CPS-like  description for how virtual organizations  maintain and protect
this data.

     Current proxy certificate specifications ensure that proxy and
delegation operations never require private keys to be sent across the
network. It is important to state clearly to developers that all
future protocols must continue this practice.  If it is necessary to
send a passphrase or password across the network, they need to be
encrypted at a strength equivalent to the strengh of the key.

2.1.4. Proxy Certificate Revalidation 
Since the proxy  certificates do not have any mechanism for being revoked, any
proxy certificate must be revalidated every "standard day".

2.1.5. Authorization Level Dependent on Authentication Strength 
The authorization for access to a resource at a particular level may depend on
the strength of the authentication. The level of authentication must be
included with the credential information presented to all resource managers.

2.1.6. Call-outs
Call-outs prior to access to resources MAY be provided as a form
of authorization control by the virtual organization, the site(s) and
each resource provider.

2.1.7. Re-authentication requires Re-authorization
If a credential expires and requires  reauthentication,  then  reauthorization
should also be performed by the Registration Authority (RA).  The RA
will vet the user's roles and groups.  Resource specific authorizers
will be made aware of any group or role changes, e.g. via the extended
attributes of the certificate of the user.

2.1.8 Logging

Logs documenting the resource access decisions, policies, policy
changes, and resource implementation of policies should be logged.
The virtual organization, site(s) and resource managers and should log
such events and retained these logs for 10**7 seconds (approximately 4
months). The logs must be protected to ensure privacy and
integrity. The restrictions and safeguards should be published.

2.1.8.1 Logging requirements
- logs SHOULD be frequently archived on a machine different than the
one they were generated
- at time of archival the logs SHOULD be digitally signed by the
archival server 
- if is recommended to constantly log grid access requests to a site
wide logging server in addition to local logging at the resource, this
increases auditability and protects from tampered logs if a machine
has been compromized. (and maybe this needs to go into the accounting
section, i.e. cross reference to section 3.4 )  

2.2: Authorization requirements in Advanced Collaborative Environments 

2.2.1 Authorization Policy Change Control

2.2.1.1 Authorization policies may change over time. Mechanisms to manage
policy specification across the sphere of control of the resource,
site, VO, application manager, and user should be provided.

2.2.1.2 A time delay between publication of a policy change and
its' implementation or enforcement is to be expected.  There should be
prompt implementation of policy change.  The resource manager will
implement the policy change and log compliance.  The resource manager
will define a prompt and reasonable time delay appropriate for the
resource.

2.2.1.3 Sites and virtual organizations must have the ability to suspend
resource authorization for a particular grid identity without actually
deleting the authorization and therefore possibly losing tracking
information.

2.2.1.4  There MUST be the ability to quickly revoke a particular remote
authorized service that may be operated under dubious procedures.  For
example, if a remote processing resource steals computation results,
it should be removed from the directory of processing resources.  This
is difficult in the context of the current Grid Technology because of
the open resource registration process and aggressive discovery
algorithms.  Similar such directory services on the Internet have a
history of exploitation, such as the DNS recursive lookup hack.

2.2.2 Granularity of Authorization

     Depending on the application scenario the granularity requirement
for authorization decisions vary from fine grain (based on individual
subject, requested action and assets involved) to coarser grained
authorization on the basis of groups or even sites. Support for role
based access control mechanisms is specifically requested for future
ACE systems.

2.3. 

2.3. European Data Grid 

2.3.1.
This section is based on the EU DataGrid "Security Requirements and
Testbed 1 Security Implementation", 
http://edms.cern.ch/document/340234/4.0

 "We  are  largely  basing   authorization  on  the  concept  of  the  Virtual
  Organisation  or VO. A Virtual  Organisation  is a collection of individuals
  and  institutions  that are defined  according to a set of resource  sharing
  rules. A  Virtual  Organisation  is a  dynamic  collection  of  individuals,
  institutions  and  resources.  Users  will  be  members  of one or more  VO.
  Resources  may  belong  to a VO, and allow  their  members  access.  VOs may
  collaborate,  and allow one another use of their resources,  possibly giving
  priority to their own members. (For example, there may be 2 Particle Physics
  experiments, funded by different sources. Each may set up their own VO. They
  may wish to set up their  resources  such  that  they can use one  another's
  resources,  but their own members get priority over their use. For instance,
  members  of their  own VO may  submit  jobs to a high  priority  queue,  but
  members of the other VO may only  submit  jobs to a lower  priority  queue.)
  Within  each  Virtual  Organisation,  various  roles are  defined. A role is
  defined as an  attribute of a principal  that allows the  principal to carry
  out certain actions." - Andrew McNab


2.3.2. Users or end entities may be members of any number of 
       Virtual Organisations.  

2.3.3. 
Users or end entities may have any number of roles within a given
Virtual Organisation

The Virtual Organisation must be able to decide user membership policy and
user authorization policy. 

2.3.4.
The owner of a resource or data MUST be able to allow or deny an end entity
authorization to carry out an action based on any of the following:

1) By public access
2) By only having acceptable authentication
3) By membership of a VO
4) By role(s) within a VO
5) By membership of a combination of VOs and roles
6) By allowing selected certificates
7) Individual certificates may be banned

Note 2.3.4.1 
We might want to get a clear picture up front what
the precedence rules are.  I am assuming that the mostspecific
overrule the less specific or something like that, but with 8
different ways, the calculations could get a little funny.

note 2.4.7.1.2
The ability to quickly revoke a particular
remote authz service (like a VO authz service someplace) is something
to think about. Once we're stuck trusting remote servers that may be
operated under dubious procedures, it will be important that when a
compromise is detected, we can quickly lock them out.

2.3.5
The authorization method must allow any combination of the above
authorization requirements, including any combination of VOs and roles

2.3.6
It should be possible to base authorization on any one of the following,
in addition to the authorization requirements above:

1)  Data name (Any of file, directory etc.)
2)  Storage element name (= fileserver)
3)  Operation (including metadata and file operations) 
4)  Resource usage limits. (E.g. quota) 

2.4 fine grain access control policies 

2.4.1
There MUST be no restrictions on the degree/level of granularity
of authorization. In particular, no hard-coded limits to how the
granularity is set should exist.  This should include, for example,
allowing authorization to a hierarchy of directories, individual
directories, or individual files.  It may become burdensome on the
resource to support high level of granularity, therefore it is left to
the resource to set a practical level of granularity.


2.4.2
It MUST be possible to determine the list of resources to which
an end entity has access and what actions they are allowed to carry
out in the VO(s) and role(s) set for the current session.  The burden
of creating this list is on the end entity.  It is left to the end
entity to know or lookup or discover the resource and query for access
permissions.  This relieves the resource from having to know how to
report to the end entities.  This also averts a security vulnerability
similar to the historical NIS (Network Information Services) hack in
which the complete access lists being pushed to slave servers was
intercepted and exploited.

2.4.3 
It MUST be possible to determine if a role or group has
access to a resource.  This access information is necessary to
accurately stage and schedule jobs.  This access information is
sensitive because it could be used to exploit the Grids security.  For
example, knowing that Bob has access to the targeted resource, the
hackers attention is turned to Bob or his home computer.  Therefore
the resouces access information MUST be known in its' complete form to
the resource administrator and Grid security personnel for security audit
and forensic purposes.  Others MUST have access to authorization data
ONLY in the form 
1) permit and permit qualifier (e.g. PERMIT/always  or PERMIT/8:00am-5:00pm)
2) or denied and denied qualifier (e.g. DENY/always or DENY/QoS load).
This information MUST pertain only to their identity.

2.4.3.1
There is a dynamic nature to authorized access in that it may depend on
the resource load, quality of service, or time of day.  If authorization
access changes during access, an error code SHOULD be propagated back to
the application or the application SHOULD query for the authorization 
deny qualifier.

2.5 Transparency

2.5.1
The authorization method must be application independent.

2.5.2 The authorization process must be the same and consistent
within a VO. Implementations of this process could differ as long as
the same process or procedures are followed.

2.5.3 The complexities of different levels of authorization and
allowing some entities access to one portion of data and disallowing
access to another portion of related data is not new or specific to
the Grid computing.  For example, patient information the doctor sees
may be unethical for the insurance company to view.  An entire
standard body is addressing these issues (Liberty Alliance
www.projectliberty.org).

 2.5.6 It is necessary that controls are in place to allow the
implementation of these authorization decisions and that these
controls are not overly complex as to tax the abilities of the
resource administrator.

2.5.7  The consistance and transparency to the application is aided by
the use of standardized error codes of authorization denials.  The
error information MUST not provide more information than necessary as
to create a security risk.  An error return code MAY be accompanied
with a log entry number to assist the resource adminitrator in
synchronizing the denial instance.  For example, a user may call a
help desk to report access problems, giving the error code and log
entry number.  The resource administer can reference this log entry
number to provide detailed information which may not be suitable or
others to view.

2.5.8 
My main concerns revolve around:
    1) An authz system that is understandable for VO's and site resource
providers. I think that comprehensibility _must_ trump generality and
power. An authz system that is too complicated is a liability - we can't
afford an authz system where you don't know why someone can or can't
get access. Even with something as dumb as Unix file permissions, people
get stuck.
    2) How does the system perform under the kind of failure modes we commonly
worry about (network partition, server compromise, etc...)

2.6. Authorization Servers

2.6.1  There should be authorization servers SHOULD be localized to the
service.  Grids SHOULD gracefully survive partitioning so that local
services can continue their operation in case a resource is
disconnected or to avoid a DoS attack.  This may required redundant or
distributed Authorization Services.


2.7 Authorization Revocation 

2.7.1
It must be possible to disable a user's authorization in the following
ways: 
1)  It must be possible to remove a user from a VO. 
2)  It must be possible to remove a given role or a number of roles from
    a given user. 

2.7.2
This should be done in a time frame consistent to the authentication
revocation of 0.1Ms.

2.7.3
After the user has authenticated himself, the user must be able to select
and de-select VOs and roles.  This is analogous to the substitute user
or 'su' command on UNIX systems.  This allow an entit to change a role
briefly for a critical section before returning to a role and access
less vulnerable or potentially dangerous.  This consistent with section 2.1.2.

2.7.4

Is there a need for mutual authorization.  An application or end entity may
need assurances that the recourse is authorized to run a specific
job.  The distributed program or grid job in and of itself may be of
value.  The results may be of value and need protection from dubious
or resources with poor security.

2.7.4.1 A grid job may need to specify that it is only run on systems
with security level B operating systems, or systems not directly
connected to the internet, or system with OS's prone to hacking.  This
is more relevant in the OGSA model where service factories may
incorporate more resouces to handle service request loads.

2.8 The user has power to choose current role, and current set of privileges.

2.8.1
The authorization requirements on data access should hold regardless of
replication.  

2.9 Maintain Policy

The Authorization mechanism must preserve the Subject Identity of the user.

It should be possible to assign a user to a set or group, the authorization 
to data access can be assigned by this set. 

2.10 Authorization for Replicated Data 

2.10.1. Authorization for Replicated Data"
If files are replicated, authorization for access to this replicated data
must not depend on the availability of the data source sites authorization.
Simply put, the source site and the source site authorization server
can go down without effecting access to the replicated data.

2.10.1.1
This key term is "replicated".  Data is replicated to provide a higher
level of availability.  This availability would be compromised if the 
authorization was dependent on the origin site's authorization server.
This insures the independent availability of the replicated data.

2.11 Role Confirmation

2.11.1
It must be possible for the resource to confirm that a user has the 
VO membership(s).  This is done through the trust model with the 
authority vetting the identity of the user.  This is described in
the "CA-based Trust Model for Grid Authentication and Identity
Delegation" from the GGF Grid Certificate Policy Working Group.

It must be possible for the resource to confirm the role(s) or groups the
user is claiming at the time they request access to a resouce.
Currently, in the Globus Grid environment, resources assign these
groups via the grid-mapfile. 

It must NOT be possible to produce a list of members of a VO, of
which VOs a user belongs to.

2.12.1 Providing credentials to service
The auth and authz creds that a user presents should be made
available to the execution environment of something like a gatekeeper
job manager. In other words, the gatekeeper may have passed you through
with your creds, but if this means you are running a job, the auth/authz
creds should be made available via some mechanism like environment
variables.





Chapter 3  Site Accounting and Audit Requirements




3.1 Accounting and Audit Requirements Introduction 

Accounting is important beyond charging or purchasing resources. Accounting
links to other business IT processes such as business planning, return on
assets and management information.
Accounting is importance is beyond accurate billing. IT use accounting for
controlling and managing operational costs. Accounting links to other IT
disciplines such capacity planning, service level management, performance
management.

Accounting has historically had close ties to Authentication and Authorization
because of the certainty in which they identify the entity to be associated
with the accounting data. This is particularly important in the areas of
security audits, intrusion detection, and computer and network forensics. 
Recall the book "Cuckoo's Egg: Tracking a Spy Through the Maze of Computer
Espionage" by Clifford Stoll who spoke at GGF6; this true tale all started with
an accounting error. I might add, this document reads with the same excitement
as "Cuckoo's Egg"; assuming you are on the appropriate medications.

3.2 Document Goals

The focus of this document is divided into two categories: Grid Resource
Accounting, and Grid Auditing 
Grid Auditing is the focus on accounting as a security component, and the
need for a seamless relationship between Accounting the Authentication and
Authorization components of the Grid.  Simply put, with a small addition to
existing accounting data, an audit mechanism could greatly enhance Grid
security.

Grid resource auditing is the more traditional sense of accounting that
accounts for resources usage and billing.

3.2.2 Requirements Gathering for Grid Accounting

Requirements for Grid Accounting focuses on the relationship of monitoring
and metering authentication and authorization for auditing security. This
information binds an end entity to the resource being access for the time and
duration of access. The consumer of this information is Grid admin, helpdesk ,
intrusion detection or computer forensics.

3.2.3 Requirements Gathering for Grid Resource Accounting

It is important to understand how the audit data will be used. This will
help define the accounting data gathered and the data flow.
It is the goal of this document to describe the requirements of Grid accounting
and audit components which satisfy a broad range of instances and usage. This document
will also identify other current Grid working groups and accounting standards
that are addressing these needs.

3.3 Non-Goals

This document will understand the consumers of the accounting data and their
requirements, but will not analyze the consumers or make recommendations on how
consumers should process the accounting data.
It is not the goal of this document to reproduce or reinvent past  accounting
standards or duplicate current Grid accounting work.
Relationship with Authentication and Authorization
Accounting has historically had close ties to Authentication and Authorization
because of the certainty in which they identify the entity to be associated
with the accounting data.

3.4 Grid Auditable Data

The Grid auditing examines accounting requirements from a security
perspective: audit logs, intrusion detection, and forensics. These requirements
are not disjoint for mainstream accounting concerned with billing and metering,
but in this section the requirements are described from the security
perspective.

3.4.1
Grid Accounting must monitor or log the following data per resource access.
   Resource
   End Entity Identity and Provenance 
   Authentication and Authorization 
   Action Time and Duration

3.4.2 Resource Identification RID

The resource must be identified. 
The resource identity can be layered or accumulative or onion fashioned. This
identification may be any or all of the following and more:
   1) IP address 
   2) Web Service
   3) vnode, or inode and generation or some other file handle
   4) file set or disk volume group
   

The RID should be descriptive of the state of the resource.  
For example, if the resource is a file, the exact content of the file at the
time of access would be an optimal piece of information for a forensic analogy.
This type of metadata is difficult and expensive to maintain, and usually
requires replay logs for the most accurate view of the data at and during the
time of access.  None the less, the more accurate the accounting description of
the resource the better the assessment and recovery from a hack is possible. 

3.4.3 End Entity Identification EEID

The EEID accurately describes the end entity of the resource. Commonly  this
will be a GSI proxy certificate, which can be easily translated  into an
certificate and person to whom that certificate was issued.   

3.4.4 Globus Toolkit 2.* EEID

It is appropriate to talk specifically  about the Globus toolkit because it is
a widely used Grid technology and moreover  illustrates a relationship that is
common among Grid technologies.

3.4.4.1 Relationship between EEID and Process id

Intrusion detection at a file system level when triggered identifies the PID
(process id) of the offender. Via the system process table, the associated UID
(user id) and PPID (parent process ID) can easily be identified.   When a Grid
job is submitted and runs on a Grid resource, the parent process is the UID
mapped to the certificate in /etc/grid-security/grid-mapfile during the
authorization process. Many certificates may be mapped to the same UID. This
masks an audit trail needed to link all of the connections from the offending
process to the EEID.

3.4.4.2
The two crucial  pieces of information  are the PID of the process  running on
the Grid resource and the EEID  responsible  for initiating this process. Both
the PID and the EEID are known but not  necessarily  recorded  consistently or
together. The  globus-gatekeeper  will log the EEID at authentication  time in
the syslogd data.

For example
Feb 14 09:31:32 ipsec GRAM gatekeeper[29452]: Authenticated globus user: 
/C=US/O=IBM/OU=GridLPP/OU=austin.ibm.com/CN=shawnm                             
       
In this example, the EEID can easily be tracked via the CA and RA back to a
singular user. The disjoint occurs with the recording of the PID of the actual
process that is run on behalf of the EEID on the Grid resource. The PID is
returned to the initiator in the form of a JobID.
For example
<274> globus-job-submit ipsec /bin/ls ls /tmp
https://ipsec.austin.ibm.com:62960/27126/1045236692/

3.4.4.3
The middle number is the PID of the ‘ls' command run on the Grid resource
ipsec.austin.ibm.com. The JobID, which contains the PID, and the EEID should be
sent as part of the Grid auditable monitor data. This data should not be
recorded locally because it allows a hacker a means to cover his tracks.  All
Grid  data should be reported to a remote central system.
The provenance of the process or job must extend to the true origin. The GIS
model allows for the propagation of jobs and the inheritance of  security
credentials. Simply put, as a job propagates from Grid resource to Grid
resource, EEID must remain consistent or any transition of  identity must be
monitor.  Perhaps stepping beyond the scope of this document but for the
purposes of illustrating a point, it is obvious that if a process inherits
credentials beyond the subset of its' current credentials, an alarm should be
triggered.

3.4.5 Authentication and Authorization

Knowing the provenance of a job should allow the audit trail to quickly discern
the authentication and authorization used to gain access to the Grid. Again. 
Back to the example of the Globus Toolkit.  

The EEID or proxy  certificate  is logged by gatekeeper on the Grid  resource.
This is a logging of the  authorization  processes. The actual  authentication
took place on the provenance node with grid-proxy-init when the passphrase was
entered and the proxy certificate  created. The authentication  process should
be  monitored.  Currently  it is not possible to  distinguish  between a valid
authentication via  grid-proxy-init  and the stealing of the proxy certificate
out of /tmp.

This is analogous to the "su" command (substitute user) which is logged by
syslog and in sulog. When the grid-proxy-init command is issued the user is
taking on the identity of a particular Grid user. This information should be
part of the Grid auditable data.

3.4.6 Action, Time and Duration

This section will have some  intermingling  of the  accounting  requirement as
they  relate to security  and as they relate to On Demand  computing.  This is
done to illustrate  that the exact same  accounting  data is used for two very
different purposes.

3.4.6.1 Attempted Action relating to IDS and OGSA

The action of the process  running on the Grid resource  should be part of the
Grid  accounting  data. The  action  of the  process  may be  attempted  but
unsuccessful or denied. An example failed su attempts or failed logins. Action
attempts are critical for behavior  based  components  of Intrusion  Detection
Systems (IDS).  

Additionally,  failed  actions may be a consequence of a resource  shortage or
outage. For example, in the Open Grid Service  Architecture  (OGSA) model this
information could be used to create an additional service factory.

3.4.6.2 Time and Duration Relating to IDS and On Demand Computing

The time and  duration of the action are  critical to computer  forensics,  as
they  report on who was in the candy  store and for how long. This  allows for
the creation of a time line of activity. Action, time and duration are equally
important to both  intrusion  detection,  On Demand or dynamic  services,  and
autonomic or self healing services.

3.4.7 Grid Accounting and Audit Data Conclusion 

In a Grid environment it is important to monitor a causally connected sequence
of events. It is important to be able to traverse this sequence of events from
authentication to action taken on the remote resource. The proper accounting
data can enable intrusion detection, the detection of malicious behavior and
provide security audit trail.

3.5 Requirements Gathering for Grid Resource Accounting

It is not viewed an abdication of responsibility to leave this section to
other GGF working groups. It is viewed as an efficient means of coordination
between different GGF groups. Grid accounting is closely
affiliated with security, but the more traditional computer accounting
belongs more in the area of GGF-SRM, Scheduling and Resource Management Area,
(http://www.gridforum.org/3_SRM/srm.h) Specifically in GGF Resource Usage
Service Working Group 
  GASX Grid Service Accounting Extensions by Anthony Beardsmore
  Extreme Blue Grid Accounting Project (Grid Service Accounting Extensions) by
  James Magowan.

3.6 Existing standards and practices 

3.6.1 Accounting Institutes 

 I have not been able to find any standards for computing or IT accounting
relating to traditional CPA accounting or from other standard bodies such as
Oasis or Liberty Alliance.
IETF
     Existing work has been done in this area but not necessarily relating to 
     Grid in the a set of IETF RFCs.
     The Related RFCs are:
     RFC3127
               Authentication, Authorization, and
               Accounting: Protocol Evaluation 
     RFC2989
               Criteria for Evaluating AAA
               Protocols for Network Access  
     RFC2977
               Mobile IP Authentication,
               Authorization, and Accounting
               Requirements           
     RFC2975
               Introduction to Accounting
               Management           
     RFC2906
               AAA Authorization
              Requirements         
     RFC2905
               AAA Authorization Application          
     RFC2904
               AAA Authorization Framework        
     RFC2903
               Generic AAA Architecture   
     RFC2866 
               RADIUS Accounting

     IETF Draft on DIAMETER BASE Protocol
               <draft-ietf-aaa-diameter-17.txt> 
               <http://www.ietf.org/html.charters/aaa-charter.html>

Of the  RFCs, I  found  the the  RADIUS  Accounting  standard  to be the  most
interesting  because the nature of securely logging onto a network via RADIUS,
is  similar  to  the  nature  of  securely  logging  onto  a  Grid.  There  is
considerable  work in this  standard that can be leveraged in  implementing  a
Grid Accounting standard.

Footnotes
[1] GGF Grid Certificayte Policy - WG paper "CA-Based Trust Model of Grid Authentication"


Glossary
resource administrator - the owner of a resource or the entity having control
                      of the resource acting as an extension of the owner.

resource authorities - synonym for resource administrator
Grid security personnel - trusted personnel tasked with ensuring the integrity
                          of the Grids security

end entity - an identifiable user, or service using resources.

user - synonym for end entity

At the recent PKI Workshop I saw the following names used

Subject Authorities  - issue attributes to subjects (the users)

Policy Authorities   -  issue more general (than resource specific)
                        policies (e.g. site policies)

Environment Authorities - issue statements about environmental points

4.0
Intellectual Property Statement

     The GGF takes no position regarding the validity or scope of any
intellectual property or other rights that might be claimed to pertain
to the implementation or use of the technology described in this
document or the extent to which any license under such rights might or
might not be available; neither does it represent that it has made any
effort to identify any such rights.  Copies of claims of rights made
available for publication and any assurances of licenses to be made
available, or the result of an attempt made to obtain a general
license or permission for the use of such proprietary rights by
implementers or users of this specification can be obtained from the
GGF Secretariat.

     The GGF invites any interested party to bring to its attention
any copyrights, patents or patent applications, or other proprietary
rights which may cover technology that may be required to practice
this recommendation.  Please address the information to the GGF
Executive Director.

Full Copyright Notice

Copyright (C) Global Grid Forum (2003). All Rights Reserved.

     This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished
to others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain
it or assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published
and distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any kind,
provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are
included on all such copies and derivative works. However, this
document itself may not be modified in any way, such as by removing
the copyright notice or references to the GGF or other organizations,
except as needed for the purpose of developing Grid Recommendations in
which case the procedures for copyrights defined in the GGF Document
process must be followed, or as required to translate it into
languages other than English.

The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be revoked by the GGF or its successors or assigns.

This document and the information contained herein is provided on an "AS IS" basis and THE GLOBAL GRID FORUM DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE."


