  
                                                          1
                      DRAFT 2003-08-07
                     IPv6 Working Group
                Global Grid Forum, Data Area
Administrative Information
Name and Acronym:
  IPv6-WG
Chairs:
  Brian Carpenter <brc@zurich.ibm.com>
  Piers O'Hanlon <P.OHanlon@cs.ucl.ac.uk>
Secretary(s)/Webmaster(s):
  tbd
Email list:
  ipv6-wg@ggf.org
Web page:
  http://forge.ggf.org/projects/ipv6-wg
Charter
Focus/Purpose
  IPv6 is now emerging as a significant factor in
  operational networks, and continued scaling up of the
  Internet (and thus of Grids) will require the additional
  address space and management features of IPv6. It is
  therefore important that all GGF specifications work as
  well (or better) with IPv6 as with IPv4. The purpose of
  the working group is to identify any GGF specifications
  that do not meet this requirement, to provide appropriate
  guidelines for future specifications, and to communicate
  any issues discovered with IPv6 to the IETF.
  
Scope
  The scope is IP version dependencies in the output of all
  working groups in all GGF areas. However, it is expected
  that many WGs will be quickly eliminated as having no
  such dependencies. Any specification that involves the
  handling of network I/O or IP addresses, or the
  processing or display of URLs is likely to be affected.
Goals
  Either two or three deliverables are planned, according
  to the result of the work.
  
  1. IP version dependencies in GGF specifications. This
  will be an Informational document identifying each GGF
  specification (approved or public draft) that contains
  dependencies on IPv4 (principally address format and
  length). It is intended to be used as a checklist for
  planning the necessary document revisions by the WGs
  concerned.
  
  Milestone for draft: GGF9
  Milestone for final: before GGF10
  
  2. Guidelines for IP version independence in GGF
  specifications. This will be an informational document
  describing how to avoid IPv4 dependency in GGF
  specifications. It is intended to be used by all GGF WGs
  and as a checklist for document approval.
  
  Milestone for draft: GGF9
  Milestone for final: before GGF10
  
  3. Issues in IPv6 specifications. If the work on these
  two deliverables identifies any issues in the IETF
  specifications for IPv6, the third deliverable will be an
  Informational liaison document to be sent to the IETF
  describing these issues. If no such issues are found, or
  if they are accepted by the IETF through informal
  liaison, the document will not be produced.
  
  Milestone for draft: GGF10
  Milestone for final: TBD
  
Management Issues
Evidence of commitments to carry out WG tasks
  Brian Carpenter and Piers O'Hanlon are committed to lead.
  We have at least 6 other people who have indicated
  willingness to contribute actively.
Pre-existing Document(s) (if any)
  Two highly relevant IETF drafts:
  
  http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-ietf-v6ops-ipv4survey-apps-01.txt
  http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-shin-v6ops-application-transition-01.txt
  
  We will in fact investigate whether direct collaboration
  with the IETF is possible.
Exit Strategy
  It is not expected that the WG will have any reason to
  continue after the deliverables have been published
Any other relevant information
  n/a




