SAGA - Extensions I
Azalea: 9:00-10:30 Tuesday 30th January 2007
Goal: C++ Language Bindings & API Extensions

Introduction of the C++ language bindings. Uses TR1 (currently Boost).

Q: Is the usage of TR1 (Boost) a good idea?
A: Yes this is standardized and supported by most compilers. The C/C++ community largely accepts this model.

Q: Do we shutdown some user base with this?
A: gcc 4 or more compilers should support it. Boost implementation is tested on many platforms everyday to ensure compatibility so TR1 should be fine.

TODO: List the possible architecture to see if TR1 is available. Post on the mailing list and give a 2 month deadline.

Q: Is the usage of templates good?
A: Yes since this is the most clean and simple way to do in C++.
TODO: Put in the mailing list to see if this is a good choice.

TODO: Create a list of header files for SAGA to define a core L&F for C++ like in Java. Combine this into a language binding document for OGF.
TODO: Create an entry in CVS for the C++ binding.

Introduction of the Messaging API (Andre).

Q: Is the topology approach useful and simple enough to support the 80/20 rule?
A: Yes but it is build on top of the streams API and ensure to support the needs of the different use cases.

Q: Are the labels for reliability correct?
A: They might not be the best, subject to be changed.

Q: The flags cannot be changed over time?
A: No, this might introduce to complex implementation and undefined states if the connections are already setup.

Q: Is the message class "manage" flag good?
A: In terms of C++ no, we better have another scheme. Consider to define in the language binding.

Q: Is this API not like MPI?
A: Yes MPI can be one implementation.

Q: Could we not dig into the use cases to set a list of usages and submit it to the MPI folk?
A: Yes this is a good idea.

It would be good to see how MPI does the messaging and take some of the syntax from it. TODO: Andre will tackle this and see how MPI did it and map it back to the proposal.

Other groups in OGF are working on some sort of message communication. Synchronization is necessary and planned.

TODO: The package name might not be good enough, seek a new name.
TODO: See what is different from MPI and list them.

Session Closed: 10:30
%