Summary of conference call August 3, 2004

  In attendance:

    Larry Flon         <flon@isi.edu>
    Hemant S Kolwalkar <hskolwal@us.ibm.com>
    Susan Malaika      <malaika@us.ibm.com>
    Norman Paton       <norm@cs.man.ac.uk>

Susan stated that Hemant is looking at generating MOF from the SQL UML, using an open source Rose plug-in.  We will have a report on progress for the next telecon, slated for August 17.

Larry mentioned that Andrea Westerinen had stated that MOF generally contains more information than UML.  The point being that for MOF to be acceptible to the DMTF, it may need more information, for example, constraints, that are not expressed in the UML.  If Hemant is successful in using the Rose plug-in to produce MOF, there will likely still be a manual review process to "enrich" the MOF.

Susan referred to the fact that DAIS want XML schemas, and Andrea sent an email to the OGSA group yesterday with some proposed rules for generating XML from MOF.

The group reviewed Susan's comments on the DAIS Use Case document, regarding coverage of the requirements by the SQL UML model.  In general, there appears to be good coverage for the Logical Schema, though none at this time for the Physical Schema (which is OK).  The only possible hitch is with JDBC metadata, which are not part of SQL 99 and hence not in the SQL UML model.

Larry asked some logistical questions:

	1. Should we target CIMV2 or CIMV3?
		Since CIMV3 is due out, at least in preliminary form, by the
		end of 2004, we should focus our work there.

	2. What form should the GGF document take?
		We can base this either on the JSIM specification, or
		perhaps on the DMTF Database WG specification (if we can
		get copyright permission).

	3. Where should the SQL UML model "hook" into CIMV3?  Larry will
		contact DMTF folks to begin this discussion, and also to
		begin discussing MOF requirements beyond what is in UML.

Plan for next teleconference:

	Next telecon is scheduled for August 17.  We will have a report
	from Hemant on MOF progress, and some answers from Larry about
	working with the DMTF.  We will also plan our work at GGF12 in Brussels.

