Minutes of the OGSA Data WG telcon, 26th January 2007

1) Early discussion:
 
Roll call:
        Dave Berry, NeSC (Note Taker)
        Allen Luniewski, IBM
	Mario Antonioletti, EPCC
           
Minutes from January 12th call were approved. 
 

2) Action report


Completed actions

- Dave to mail OGSA EMS folk about a meeting to discuss the EMS Data scenarios.
- Dave to update OGF19 session descriptions.
- Mario to flesh out discussion of structured and unstructured data access in the new section 7 and to rewrite the appendix to show the mapping.

Ongoing actions:

- Allen and Dave to review schedule.
- Chris to send out second draft of GFS scenario.
- Dave to create or reuse scenario slides for main OGSA slide set.
- Dave to draft metadata catalog scenario & services (cf. SRB)


Sections in architecture document to be edited (plus appropriate bits to be put in appendix 3):
	Data Access – DAIS - Mario
	Data Access – ByteIO - Mario
	Cache Services – Dave
	Metadata Catalogues – Dave
 	Appendix 1 listing specs – already done?
	Appendix 2 summary of general interfaces – to be completed in final draft?
	Appendix 3 mappings to specs – to be completed in final draft?

- What about asynchronous operations and aborting requests? (Dave) (Suspend/Resume/Abort Request)


3) Progress Report.

Dave has corrected a corrupt version of scenarios document on GridForge. 

We've been invited to talk at the Data Area meeting on Monday at OGF19.  The Area Directors  suggest that our document is used as a basis for a gap analysis.

Yin Chen, one of Dave's RA, has commented on the replication chapters and Dave has forwarded these comments to Allen.  We agreed that major issues should be discussed on the mailing list.  Dave proposed that the scenarios document should include a scenario where the interface fronts a proprietary system.

Patrick Dentressangle has suggested that we add status information for replication channels.


4) OGF planning

Allen will present our work at the data area meeting at 6pm on Monday.  

We will touch base at lunch (12:30) on Tuesday (if not before).

There are two Standards All-Hands sessions on Wednesday morning.

Allen will present the first session on Thursday (status update).  Dave will present the second (EMS+Data scenarios).

Other sessions: Mario will lead the DAIS session on Wednesday afternoon.  Allen will attend the Vendor Adoption Forum on Tuesday afternoon.  Dave will attend the ByteIO session on Tuesday afternoon.  Mario will present OGSA-DAI at the Software Forum on Tuesday afternoon.  Allen will attend the OGSA-DMI sessions on Thursday afternoon.


5) DONM.

Friday, 9th February.  