Summary of conference call June 22, 2004
                                                                        
  In attendance:
                                                                        
    Larry Flon         <flon@isi.edu>
    Hemant S Kolwalkar <hskolwal@us.ibm.com>
    Brian Collins      <collinsb@uk.ibm.com>
    Andrea Westerinen  <andreaw@cisco.com>
    Susan Malaika      <malaika@us.ibm.com>
    Tom Roney          <troney@ncsa.uiuc.edu>
                                                                        
Concerning authorization and/or authentication:
                                                                        
  Larry argues that within the context of a database, if
  there is a provider that dumps table/index information
  into the CIMOM, then anyone can see the information.
                                                                        
  According to Andrea, there will be a standard mechanism in
  CIM v3 for all CIMOMs to enable granular access control.
                                                                        
  Version 3 is due out by the end of the year.
                                                                        
How detailed do we want model?
                                                                        
  How much of the CWM model should we bring into this model,
  understanding that the more classes we add, the harder it's
  going to be to push it through the DMTF.  And, the more
  complex the class model for the logical schema in CIM,
  the harder it's going to be to get the database providers
  to populate those classes.
                                                                        
  There was a lengthy discussion about whether or not we
  wanted to model user-defined types, and whether or not
  we wanted to model from the CWM work, and/or whether
  or not we wanted to support the SQL99 standard.
                                                                        
  After the discussion went a little further, into other
  issues in the minutes for GGF11 session 2, including
  stored procedures and triggers, the question is still
  at what level of specification do we want to model?
                                                                        
  We agreed that we need another pass at the use cases
  before we can push forward on the model, but then
  Susan joined the call and, after some questions
  concerning CIM (answered by Andrea), and after some
  further discussion about what we use as a base model,
  Susan mentioned that she had models (IBM) for much
  of what we were discussing.
                                                                        
  Susan will contribute UML models that IBM has for tables,
  columns, stored procedures, triggers, etc.  It's either
  this or we use CWM.  Susan will look into what they can
  contribute in the way of UML, and we agreed to work
  in a piecemeal fashion.  Susan will get us the pieces
  as we need them.
                                                                        
ACTION ITEMS:
                                                                        
  Susan and Hemant will talk about what they can send
  us to jumpstart this process (in the way of UML).
                                                                        
  Focus on the model bottom-up for now, and  we'll see if we
  need use-case work later.
