
Meeting notes, Authority Recognition Research Group, October 6, 2003

1. IPR statement and agenda

2. Going through the submitted document.

   David presented the ideas and content on the Authority Recognition
   document.

   - The basic processes for establishing trust and QIK was explained.

   Ken: Dangerous. In SAML you don't carry the information of the
   proper use of a credential inside the credential itself.

   David: But the trust will be established in a particular
   context. The aim of QIK is to make trust a non-binary and dynamic
   risk assessment issue.

   - The pictured of "Layers of trust and indirection" was discussed
     at length.

   Ken: this models the real world today, where long-term trust tends
   to only be established on the enterprise / university campus level.
   The organizations will in turn assert the identities of all end
   users.

   David: Don't know if QIK this is a really good name (any
   longer). Perhaps it should be renamed.

3. Ongoing activities and discussion

   - Continue to explore QIK
   - Examine Liberty Authentication Context for process oriented
     mechanism
   - Explore 3rd party rating systems
   - Mapping to Grid Federation work

   Leon: Maybe you should also think of delegation of trust

   David: Reputation brokers would be useful

   Sasha: What's the fundamental difference between this and cross
   certification? (Discussed at length)

   Markus: I wonder if the overhead/cost of establishing trust has
   simply been moved elsewhere: It now becomes a much more difficult
   process to resolve liability issues when a contract is eventually
   breached.

   David: The model works thanks to all of the additional information
   that you have around the QIK statement (reputation, name, context,
   ISO certifications). However, goodwill and reputation is not yet
   formally in the model.
  
   David: Do you see any use for all of this? [mumble from the
   audience]

   Sasha: In real life you have insurance companies that reimburse you
   when things go wrong (example: you trust the bus to take you to the
   airport in time, but it breaks down). How does such things fit in
   the model?

   David: Another thing to think about and add to the model.

   Steve: How do you make sure you have all the reputation about some
   entity, especially in case that the statements disagree (some says
   "OK", others says "Crook")?

   David: I also have to evaluate the trust in the person that makes
   such a reputation statement.

   Sasha: This model assumes long relationships, as the reputation and
   trust will increase in time (hopefully). Is this what the Grid
   community need?

   (Others commented on seeing future needs for dynamic one-time
    interactions between entities on the Grid.)

end.
