GGF13 Application Contents Service (ACS) session #2

Date and Time: Mar. 16, 2005, 11:00 - 12:30
Place: Lotte Hotel Onyx Room
Lead:  Keisuke Fukui (Fujitsu)
Notes: Sachiko Wada (Ascade)

** Agenda

- Opening salutation
  Introduction & note takers 
- Review of the fist session.
- Use cases and visions
  "Installable Unit Deployment Descriptor" by Thomas Studwell (IBM)

* "Installable Unit Deployment Descriptor" 
  The outline and current status were presented by Thomas Studwell. Below 
  questions and answered were exchanged during the presentation.

 Q. Do you have any plan to go inside the install artifact?
 A. No. The artifact is the one which is referenced from the IU and 
    SI(IUDD) activity do not go inside itself.

 Q. Do you think you can have platform-neutral install artifacts?
 A. Currently it is assumed that the artifact itself is platform specific. 

 A comment from Keisuke: 
   Requirements for IUDD are very similar to those for ACS, which is expected 
   to be a single standard for software installation. We hope Grid-specific 
   features will be considered in the future IUDD standardization. 

 Q. Are you going to plan for refactoring current IUDD spec?
 A. Yes. We are going to submit IUDD spec to a formal workgroup and 
    develop a totally new spec. The new workgroup will consider all of the 
    industry requirements. I expect that CDDLM, ACS, and any other interested 
    workgroups that need standard deployment descriptor to share the 
    specification. I expect contributions both from implementation 
    perspective from the participants.

* ACS specification
  The strawman specification is introduced to show what we have today. We are 
  going to have a single document that specify the ACS, as a WG draft after 
  the WG discussion by the GGF14 in June.
 - table of contents
 - goals and non-goals

* Wrap up

A tentative roadmap is shown and agreed to discuss about how we proceed our 
activity through either e-mails, tele-conferences and/or face-to-face 
meetings.

