OGSA Roadmap Editors call minutes
October 25th, 2006

Attendees:
Chris Jordan
Hiro Kishimoto
Dona Dickinson

Updates on previous action items:
Dona got an update from Michele Drescher on DMI document status 
Chris got updates from Takuya Mori on Security profile documents, from OGSA-Data-WG on OGSA-Architecture documents. 
Hiro and Michael Behrens provided additional materials related to the Web Services context Appendix

Summary of Discussion:

Chris gave an update on the status of the document - he has a current draft with most updated status information included.
	Moving towards a near-final draft, possible this weekend? 
	Still missing a few status updates from document authors

Action: Chris to send Dona information on missing status updates
Action: Dona to send final requests for status to document authors.
Action: Chris to upload latest draft to GridForge

Hiro brought up the question of a Roadmap session at the next OGSA F2F. Chris and Dona will not attend, but can call-in.
	We chose to have a Roadmap session to review the final draft of the document on Friday, November 10th, at 1:30PM EST.
	Based on the final review, November 6th is the "Drop-Dead date" for changes to the document previous to the 
	Roadmap discussion at the F2F.

We discussed the condition of the Web Services context section. The graph Hiro provided gives a good overview of the various
	dependencies, but needs to be updated, and we need references to all the documents.
	Possible include both Mike Behrens context graph and Hiro's dependency status graph?
	
Action: Chris to check with Mike on updating WS/SOA graph. Text may need a final re-working as well.

We discussed Section 7, liaisons to other standards bodies, and Section 8, Open Source implementations
	There is a liaison to EGA listed, now obviously unnecessary

Action: Chris to send e-mail to HPC Profile group re SDSC Interop demo and inclusion in section 8
Action: Hiro will take the pen from Chris after the latest draft upload, will review and update Sections 7 and 8
Action: Chris will work on "Plan B" status information for missing updates from document authors, will add this information
	after receiving the pen from Hiro

