Hello all,

sorry for the delay, but I have been a little bit busy in the last days.

Here are the meeting minutes of the 
            "Firewall Virtualization for Grid Applications - WG"
session at OGF 24 in Singapure
 
The session took place on Wednesday September 17th from 2:15 PM until 3:45 PM.

The meeting followed the agenda planned for this session.
Beneath the 8 persons which are listed on the participants page 
linked to from the OGF 24 schedule web page, there have been around 10 
more people which seem to haven't signed the OGF IPR policies sheet.

The agenda has been:

1.) Introduction and status of FVGA-WG  (R.Niederberger)
2.) Update, status and future of FI-RG  (R.Niederberger) 
3.) Group discussions

After having described the status of the new FVGA-WG, 
where it came from, what it intends to do and where we want to go,
I gave a short update on the FI-RG research group, which has been
gone to hypernating state currently, but can be activated at any time, 
when interesting facts arise.

In the second part of my presentation I descibed a draft programm 
structure of the dynamic opening protocol, we want to define.

I also raised questions concerning the scope of the standard to be 
created, as there are:
- do we intend to define AAA or do we use protocols already existing in
  OGF
- amount of ports to be dynamically opened, e.g only one data connection
  per request or port ranges allowing multiple connections to be specified
  with one request, ...

After having presented my slides I tried to bring up a discussion, 
get feedback, and get people involved.

Here we didn't get really into a deep discussion unfortunately. 
I saw some scepticism if the proposed solution will get much positive 
feedback from firewall administrators, not being sure that this approach will
be secure enough. SO we will have to work here very hard. The solution we 
will provide has to convince detractors. But I am sure that can be done.

Since no real discussion emerged on scope of implementation, we closed
the session after about 60 minutes a little bit earlier than 
anticipated.



  