CGS-WG Session #2 8-9:30am Wed. June 9


Larry presents, Tom takes notes

Attendance:  10 constant, +5 more transient

CGS-WG Intro

  Addressed Susan Malaika's comment from first meeting that forge.ggf.org 
  requires login to get CGS docs.  This has been corrected.

CGS-WG Status

  Job Submission Information Model (JSIM)

    Document in 30-day public comment period
      http://www.ggf.org/Public_Comment_Docs/Public_Comment_Documents.htm

    Larry asks for review of doc and comments and explains the importance of 
    "any" comment.


  Software Resource Information Model (SRIM)

    Current model draft at
      https://forge.gridforum.org/docman2/ViewCategory.php?group_id=61&category_id=736


AGENDA

  GGF IP Policy/sign-in sheet explained and passed

  Review SRIM open issues

  Work plan leading up to GGF12


Current SRIM Draft

  Use Case Document at
    https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/cgs-wg/document/DAIS-WG_Use_Cases/en/3


Open Issues

  Security

    DMTF confirms that Open Source CIMOM’s do not support more than all/none
    authentication. Some commercial CIMOM’s have more sophisticated security.

    A hook to do authentication of the user inside the database is possible, but
    there would be no way to get the user’s password.  This needs more thought.

      Discussion ensues, and there is not a definitive answer right now.  But we
      see this as good news and perhaps less of an issue as previously thought.

  Replication

    How detailed do we want our model?

    Use case?

      We need to get DAIS group to refine use cases. Need to focus the scope of 
      what we need for the benefit of DMTF support.  And we are going to have to
      create providers to deliver this info to CIMOM.

        Long discussion regarding vendors' commitment to use our models and to
        provide tools/providers.

        Questions regarding time involved to construct a model and write schema.

      If we agree upon a model, one of the features is to write xml schema.
      Then it should be possible to write a provider.


  Stored Procedures

    Should these be included?
      Names, types, parameter types and description?  Use Case?

      Deployment for access is top priority.  There are some tricky procedures
      in 'some' cases.  What is listed here (names, types . . .) are needed.

      DAIS going to provide a list.

      When it comes to what you can send through as far as access is concerned, 
      this can be anything. We have to support all.  Discover tables, indexes,
      everything.

  Triggers

    Include these?  In what form?  Use case?

      If we need to model this, then at what level? The representation wrt 
      internal database tables is probably more than we need.  We need a use 
      case.

  Indices

    Include in the model? At what level of detail?  Use Case?

  Data type handling

    Should we model only basic, or more complex SQL types?
      So far we do not support user-defined types. What do we need?

    Do SQL92 types first.  Then jump to SQL99.

      But what does provider do if we don't support SQL99?

    DAIS will work on list of priorities.

  XML Database

    Should we try to include support for XML at this time?  What standard to
    use as a basis?

    Design decisions could become "not" backward compatible.  No "gospel" yet
    for XML Databases.

    Decision made to not concern ourselves with this now.

Work plan leading up to GGF12

  Bi-weekly telecons
    Start on 22nd June.

  Mail list
    Exchange drafts and opinions there.

  New model draft to resolve current issues


Roger Reich (Veritas/DMTF) joined us late . . .

  Reiterated our discussion about DMTF's support role.
  
  DMTF trying to get funding of $500,000+ to move CIM model to a full UML 
  representation.  So collaboration with groups like ours can happen.  Support 
  for XML getting into and out of CIM . . . as opposed to MOF . . . 

    Some confusion here.  Questions posed to Roger.

  Once we render CIM in UML, then many tools available such as a UML-to-XML
  translator.

  More questions for Roger . . . regarding depth of CIM. There is a different 
  depth depending on interest.  In the storage management model, depth is 
  tremendous.  Grid-service's model is weak, but this is new.

  Roger wants to understand more about the need for XML. Grid services
  communicate in XML.  We want the CIMOM to communicate in XML.

  Representing CIM in UML is a good step, but not enough. We need CIMOM to send 
  and receive in XML.

  There is project work to develop a web-service client adaptor for CIM.

  Today when you query a CIMOM you are getting back XML-formatted data 
  structures described by a DTD, and this is moving to XSD.  We need to marry 
  this project to the UML project.

  We don't want "<class name="memory"> we want "<memory> value"

  The XSD does not really tell you anything. It is a very 'loose' model. 
 
  Roger asking questions regarding our needs, trying to understand.  Running out 
  of session time.

  Larry proposes a written document to be submitted to the DMTF regarding the 
  need to move away from CIM-XML to well defined XSD's.
