TSC 10-18-06

Attendees:
Steven Newhouse
John Ehrig
Robert Fogel
Joel Replogle
Chris Kanterjiev

Clarification 
Augment the use-case repository with the requirements-gathering groups.
Action: Joel - make a note of being more specific that the use case gathering is not a brand new thing, but the work has been going on for some time.

the roadmap represents what the working groups are working on over time.
The community at large makes use cases (requirements), and the TSC takes those requirements & attempts to resolve them with the actual activity of the working groups.

Two key outputs are the roadmap, and the representation of the community at large, and the resolution of the discrepancy.

Make certain it's clear that the TSC is making a case on technical merits.  It is not directing the activity of the working group, but just representing the community-at-large view.

Path-to-market discussion:
	assuming this means the implementation of the specifications.
	The TSC can help making a specification known to the community at large (solves certain use cases)
	The TSC would have continual be assessing the working group activities & see how it addresses the use cases.

Key mechanisms:
	at GGF18 we implemented the rollup & alignment sessions.  The TSC should own the alignment session, and may inform the rollup session what it needs from them.

How do we make the existing use case repository
Steven - important to him to have the new requirements activities leverage the existing use cases, both to respect the prior work & to not duplicate work.
Recommend doing a gap analysis.

Robert - wants to do an OGF19 "orientation" session prior to all the rollup/alignment sessions to educate & highlight what we're currently doing.
Steven - it's be great to be able to point to certain existing use case documents & say "here's a spec that does this".
Show the pipeline of "use case -> working group -> specification"
Would be good to add specific use cases to highlight the high priority use cases in section 4.

Actions:
	review the document, make suggestions
	regularly go through the present activities and evaluate wrt the use cases; first pass will take significant work, deltas shouldn't be too much.
 

