Precursor meeting: TAG PMA

TAG PMA Attendees: Darcy Quesnel, Canarie (President)
Robert Cowles, SLAC (Security Officer)
Dane Skow, Fermilab
Alan Sill, TTU (Secretary)
Mike Helm, DOEGrids

Dane presented the short-term / KCA profile.  It was agreed that he
would repost notice to the tagpma-general list.  A two-week interval
for comment, followed by a two-week interval for voting would ensue.
Voting will be according to the quorum and decision rules according to
the charter.

Mike Helm mentioned that there is an organization (NERSC) that wants
to join as a CA provider under a profile that would fit the short-term
profile as above.  Discussion ensued as to whether these processes are
combined or separate; it was felt that although they could join as a
relying party, in this case they appear to want to join as a CA
provider.

Alan, acting as Secreatary, reviewed current membership and determine
that a quorum was present for the above, and so this counts as a TAG
PMA meeting for which the minutes should be conveyed as notes and
input to the next TAG PMA meeting.

IGTF - Davig Groep

Charter version 1.1 was presented and agreed to by acclamation.

David Groep was elected chair by unanimous consent among the three
voting members, represented by David Groep (EUGrid PMA), Yoshio Tanaks
(APGrid PMA), and Darcy Quesnel (TAG PMA)

A discussion then was conducted on accreditation guidelines, and the
point was made that a work item for the future is comparing these
among the PMAs to ensure all are mutually satisfied as to the
workability of these guidelines for ensuring appropriate review and
trust, even if the individual methods are different in detail.

Common naming and packaging for certificate distributions: the
question was raised as to what are the requirements from the
deployment side regarding version distribution and numbering, as well
as format.  Appropriate metadata should be included to allow people to
review the content for chagnes to the included information without
having to read each certificate in detail.  The packaging should be
done on a timescale of weeks in a way that will improve manageability.
Initially David is considering parallel distributions in two formats:
the previous one, and a new one proposed to meet the above desires.
Mike Helm raised the question as to whether RSS might be an
appropriate technology for distributing changes and change updates.
It was felt that announcements could certainly be handled in this way,
and could be (for example) piped to the gridpma.org web page, as a
starting point.  An example might be to have the cvs changes
automatically piped to the RSS feed for this purpose (i.e.,
announcements).

Accreditation profiles: Do relying parties trust profiles that IGTF
distributes, or simply select among the regional PMA profiles?  In
practice, the "classic PKI" profile is identical already among the 3
regional ones, but (for example) the short-term one being considered
within TAG PMA is not yet refined or defined on that level.  Some
potential for disharmony clearly exists.  The method for resolving
these at present is as follows: a regional PMA may propose additional
restrictions or alterations to the profile to the "owner" of that
profile, but a common version of that profile should exist as
published by the IGTF at any given time.  Note that the minimum
requirements are the ones that are operable at any given time.  Dane
Skow points out that in practice, the automated distribution will be
the mechanism of obtaining the list of certified CA's, so the
possibility of going out of synch is remote.  Darcy points out that
relying parties always have the option of deciding which profile or
profiles it will accept.

A lengthy discussion ensued, converging on the point that the real
deliverable here is a set of production-level CAs that can be
distributed as soon as possible that can be included into the VDT (for
example).

A reminder was made that the VDT (etc.) should not tie their release
process to the certificate package versioning, but should allow for
asynchronous distribution of updated certificate packages.

Mike Helm raised the "version skew" question with respect to chagnes
to requirements.  David responded that there exists a stated 6-month
grace period for compliance, specifically to allow CAs to conform to
new requirements.  Chairs of the regional PMAs should distribute the
revised requirements and review CAs for conformance within this
interval.

In this spirit, David mentioned revisions to the minimum requirements
for the classic PKI profile that will be distributed ASAP.

Conclusion of meeting: the IGTF was declared launched, and champagne
was opened.
