GGF15 CAOPS-WG IGTF meeting
October 5, 2005
2-3:30pm

Agenda:
TAGPMA issues:
  Online CA profile
  Fermilab KCA
  NERSC CA
IGTF issues:
  Federation Document
  Accreditation Guidelines standardization
  Common Naming
  Foundation

TeraGrid representatives were supposed to be here today to comment on
the KCA profile, but they weren't.  Dane wrote a profile for online
CAs, to cover both KCA and MyProxy CA.  He used the existing classic
CA profile with minimal modifications.  The profile has been available
on the GridPMA site for about a year.  There have been few commenters.
Dane says it accurately describes Fermilab KCA operation, so it could
be certified under that profile.  TeraGrid CAs will also fall under
this.  Dane proposed moving forward with this as a TAGPMA profile.
Darcy proposed a few weeks more discussion and a vote online.  No
objections were raised.

We need to define process for accrediting the Fermilab KCA against
this profile.  Do it through discussion on the mailing list?  A
face-to-face meeting?  The charter process must be initiated by
Fermilab.  They should submit a letter testifying that they meet the
requirements of the profile.  The next step after that is unclear.
EUGridPMA typically does this on face-to-face meetings, then holds
later discussions on the mailing list.  KCA has been presented to the
EUGridPMA already.  No objections to proceeding on the mailing list.
This is reasonable for a bootstrapping process.

Next steps: 
Dane will send the profile to the list.  Two weeks beginning Monday, a
period to discuss and OK the online CA profile will begin.  Two weeks
after that a discussion period will be held to discuss Fermilab
meeting the profile.

Some enrolling process will be required for voting.  EUGridPMA does
voting by acclamation.  DOEGrids does formal vote counting with s/mime
email.  We should look into using s/mime for future votes.

Mike Helm raised another item of TAGPMA business.  NERSC CA wants to
join TAGPMA using a short-term certificate issuing system using the
MyProxy CA.  ESnet has signed a subordinate certificate for NERSC, and
they want to become accredited in TAGPMA.  They've been pointed to the
profile document.  Steve Chan is responsible for this project at
NERSC.  Joining the TAGPMA is separate from having a CA accredited by
TAGPMA.  Joining gives them a vote as a relying party.  The two
processes should be de-coupled.  There was some confusion on this
point.  NERSC could qualify as a relying party, but this is a CA
project that wants to join on the basis of being a CA.  They want to
focus on being a CA provider, rather than on being a relying party.
Mike says they seem to meet the short-term certificate issuer profile.

Next steps:
Ask NERSC to prepare to present their CA service in a future TAGPMA
meeting, in as soon as a month, if possible.

6 TAGPMA members in attendance at this meeting.

An addition to the IGTF charter is that each PMA will provide a public
announce list.  Consensus on v1.0 of this document.  David Groep was
selected as the first IGTF chair by unanimous consent.

The accreditation guidelines document still has some EU stuff hanging
around.  The document is very general.  No technology-specific
language in there.  Could all of the IGTF members adopt these same
accreditation guidelines?  Take out all of the EU-specific stuff.  The
IGTF charter already defines this process.  Does VTC qualify as a
face-to-face meeting?  The IGTF charter process doesn't involve a
face-to-face meeting.  The IGTF should have a clear procedure, to be
discussed by the IGTF members.  Relying parties have a say in this.
IGTF should agree to minimum requirements for trust in the PMAs, and
members can innovate on top of the minimum requirements.  It doesn't
exclude, for example, APGridPMA having more stringent requirements.

Common naming is another IGTF issue.  The current distribution is RPM
and tar.gz.  TAGPMA hasn't looked at building a common CA certificate
distribution.  If a CA doesn't change, why does the version number of
its distribution change?  It's confusing.  Some want to have all CAs
at the same version number, so if any CA changes, then all the
versions are updated.  Some other projects may require PKCS#7 packages
and/or Java keystores.  PKCS#7 can be very useful for end-users with
browsers, but there are some cross-browser issues.  What about using
RSS to describe changes/revisions/versioning?  What is the security of
RSS feeds?

What is the process for accrediting profiles?  It's done by voting.
Every PMA can come up with its own profiles.  Which profiles are
equivalent?  Will relying parties blindly trust what IGTF feeds them?
OSG, for example, will trust regional PMA decisions, not IGTF.  OSG
will want to select which profiles are acceptable.  There's a single
classic profile for all IGTF PMAs.  Whether classic is equivalent to
KCA, for example, is a regional PMA (or local) decision.  The
experimental profile shouldn't be part of the IGTF "super-package".
How do we lump profiles together?  IGTF will not just provide the
bundle, but will provide different profiles.  A meta-package of
"production quality" profiles would be helpful.  You can use yum or
apt to keep the RPMs up-to-date.  The definitions of the packages
needs to be explicit.  What is the definition of "production quality"?

We need something that can be installed and updated by VDT!

The IGTF document is at <http://eugridpma.org/igtf>.
