GGF15 CAOPS-WG meeting
October 3, 2005
6-7:30pm

Agenda:
OCSP Update - Olle Mulmo
1SCP - Milan Sova
OCSP Policy - Milan Sova
Namespace Policy - David Groep

Olle reviewed the OCSP document
(https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/caops-wg/document/OCSP_Requirements_for_Grids).
The status is unchanged since Chicago.  At Chicago the consensus was
that the document should address proxy certificates, but no progress
has been made on this.  Suggested approach is to encode OCSP AIA in
the first-level proxy certificate (branch-level pruning and control).

Which OCSP responder to trust?  Options:

  - Same as user cert?
  - Associate responder by way of AIA URL
  - OCSP signing policy delegated to responder (best way)

How do we register proxy certificates and report them as revoked?
This is a management-level interface required at the OCSP service.

There can be multiple AIA URLs in a certificate.  AIA is a bucket of
information, including OCSP responders, CA issuing certificates, etc.
(CRL distribution point is a separate certificate field.)  Typically
clients take the first good response from any of the listed OCSP
responders, but this is uncovered territory.  The requirements
document says to process them until the first good or revoked
response.

Next step is to add text for proxy certificates and request final
comments on the list.  Then move to public comment period.  No
objections were raised.

CAOPS is now under the community area rather than the security area.
Ken Klingenstein is the Grid Operations Community Area Director.

Milan gave an update on one statement certificate policies (for
example, "This certificate was issued to a software agent.").  The
policy OIDs for these one statement policies would be encoded in the
certificate.  EUGridPMA has documented a template for these policies.
A first policy draft will be ready by January.  Should these documents
be submitted to GGF CAOPS and/or IGTF/EUGridPMA/TAGPMA?  The policies
should be managed by PMAs.  There should be an informational
document to GGF.  Agreement on the policies would happen at the Intl
Grid Trust Federation (IGTF).

Milan led a discussion on where OCSP policies should be documented.
Given that OCSP policies are experimental, we don't want to document
these policies in the CP.  Around January, Milan plans to provide a
specification for policies for experimental services.  The OCSP policy
should be published along with the CP.  Milan will plan to make a
presentation at GGF16 on this.

David led a discussion of CA namespace constraints policies.  We've
had signing policies for ages that limit CA namespaces.  A CA took
C=CH, but we already have C=CH,O=CERN.  Policy states that namespaces
can't overlap.

Why namespace constraints?

  - After the collapse of X.500, RPs need a means to enforce the
    policy statements made by ID providers and federations.

  - For existing CAs, only a specific branch of their namespace may be
    subject to the policy the RP wants to accept.

  - Should we also constrain the intended use of the certificate?

Current implementation:
  - Globus Toolkit C components have limited support for
    signing_policy file.  Only support wildcards at the end of names.
  - No Java implementation is available.

Why not define a new format now rather than implementing the old
(problematic) format?

Requirements:
1. Assign multiple namespaces to a CA
2. Allow wildcards anywhere in names
3. Allow for dynamic hierarchies of issuers
   (Needs deployment of OCSP as well...)
4. Subordinates must be replaceable without modifying namespace
   constraints for any superiors
5. RFC2253 compliant string renderings of all DNs
6. Issuers without constraints must be able to co-exist
7. Must be human readable

Please review the document.  We need wide community buy-in.  Is it
simple enough to implement in all languages?  Do you want to spend
effort in implementing this?

Once the format is agreed, the IGTF will distribute the new and old
formats in parallel.  IGTF will support the old format as long as
needed.  The new language will be more expressive than the old.

For example, UID versus UserID in different OpenSSL versions.
Everyone had to enter both in their VOMS servers.  Would RFC2253
compliant string renderings resolve this?

Is this grid-specific?  Should this go to IETF?  Let's start here and
see where it goes.  Follow the example of proxy certificates.

These policies address what certificates will be accepted for
authentication.  This is path validation.

Why isn't this fully expressed / vetted by the PMAs in the CP/CPS?
The CP/CPS doesn't provide the needed granularity of control.

How does this relate to the one-statement policies?  We want local
control over the policy.

Do we really need this?  Not clear.  Needs further discussion and
buy-in.

Could we address this by cross-certification / bridging?
There are implementation issues today.

Please read this document, on GridForge at
<https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/caops-wg/document/Namespace_Policy>,
and discuss on the mailing list.
