CAOps now is under community area, not under Security area!!


Ollie - OCSP draft
Similar to Chicago meeting (GGF 14)
Special issues on proxy certificates - wrap up here

Suggested approaches:
Multi-level delegation - OCSP check will be done at higher level of
proxy, so if invalidation occurs at a lower level, it will kill the
whole branch

Which OCSP responder to trust?
When proxy uses AIA extension (=URL added), have to provide
intelligence to OCSP objects that identifies the appropriate response
and ensures authority of signer is appropriate.  Requires special
software at OCSP level, or use some portion of AIA URL and make sure
that OCSP signing certificate had corresponding name (yuck).  Best way
is for user to delegate a proxy cert to OCSP responder in such a way
that the cert has OCSP signature info.  Can have multiple URL's in one
cert or proxy.  Essentiallly this is a bucket of URL's and info on
what will be found at these URLs (note not CRL's!).  Clients can try
these sequentially; some undefined logic is implied here.
Requirements doc just says process them one by one.

A management interface is required for the OCSP responder.

Next steps: add the above, and try to get final comments from list.
Then ready to send to GGF editor and ask for public comment.

Milan - One-statement security policies

e.g.: "This certificate was issued to a software agent, not a person."

Hope for update by next EUGrid PMA meeting.  Example template and
draft should go to CAOps also.

Should this be a GGF document?  Policies should be issued / managed by
PMAs

Namespace policy

Triggered when new CA in EUGrid PMA was tried that had a complex
hierarchy including signing policies.  Switch (Swiss national
something) overlapped with a CERN-based namespace.  RP's need a means
to enforce unique subject names from identity providers and
federations.  Q. from Ollie: does this include intended use?  A. from
David: there are some references in the document about this.

Current implementation has extended-ACL expressive syntax, but only
thing implemented is <=1023 characters and recognized assertion.
Contrast with Java world -- need to define format.

Document is intended to cover requirements: should be able to assign
multiple allowed namespaces for a given CA.  Wildcards should be
allowed anywhere, not only at end of names.  Could support dynamic CA
hierarchies.  Subordinates should be replaceable.  Representation
should be compliant with RFC2253.

Q. from Darcy: Is this backwards-compatible?  A: should have new
policy file with new name; distribute 2 formats in parallel.
Redundant?  No, because older, non-RFC-compliant implementations exist
(cf. UID= vs USERID= problem from openSSL versions in recent past).

Examples given in David's presentation -- see transparencies.

Q. from Darcy: Is this more appropriate for Grid or IETF?  Sentiment
seems to be to at least identify and propose solution; standards
bodies themselves can then decide where to accept it.

All agree we are mixing a few topics here.  Are we sure that we need
to have this at the CA level as authentication?  Appears so, as this
is really about limiting characteristics of information presented by
CA in order to assure uniqueness and completeness.  Goal is to limit
the namespace to that portion guaranteed to conform to the trust
relationship at the specified level.

Christos has placed the document on Gridforge -- people should read
and comment.  David says this is still a very rough draft.  Who is
going to do the mission work for the middleware providers?  Has
already been raised with GT and EGEE -- who else?  Should be on
relying party side, not on identity provider side.  Ollie: how about
openSSL?  (Related Q. from Alan: how about BridgeCA community?)

Darcy reiterates that this really might need to go to IETF.  Christos,
Jim: need to validate/demonstrate that this works first.
