*Present*

Michel Drescher

Steven Newhouse (note taker)

Allen Luniewski

Mario Antonioletti

 

*Agenda*

 

Approval of Minutes

20^th June 2007: Approved unchanged

 

Action Item Review

1.       Changing the names of the end states: Still to be reviewed

2.       Undo activity: Still to be reviewed

3.       Meta-data in an EPR Document – Done

4.       Security Use Cases Document – Done

Action: Mario to merge two documents into one.

5.       Put extra data in meta-data section of EPR: Resolved

6.       Organise F2F at OGF21: Ongoing.

7.       Security Questions: Discussion on security.

Action: Allen to extract the requirements from the current specification and 
place these in the general ‘security section’ of the specification. Remove the 
normative content in this area.

8.       References in the document: Postpone until later.

9.       Composite data movement: Postpone until later.

10.   Protocol Negotiation: Today’s agenda

11.   Data EPR: Today’s agenda

12.   Security & Trust review: Postpone until later.

Action: Chair to review action items and send out to list in advance of the meeting.

 

Discussion of Data EPR

What is the role of the Data EPR? Why does the data need to be within an EPR? 
Should we wrap data up in an EPR?

Propose: Single top-level container element to contain all DMI related data. 
This element could appear as part of an EPRs meta-data or standalone. Agreed.

 

Where do DEPRs come from?

They must be generated to comply with the specification. But we do not say where 
they come from – just how they MUST be structured.

 

requestDataTransfer operation on the DTF

Should we pass in the full DEPR (that includes the DataWrapper element) or just 
pass in the DataWrapper element? Passing in the DEPR means that more complex 
negotiation scenarios could be developed in the future as there would be a 
reference to a web service that the DTF could go to in order to find out more 
information.

An EPR could contain a reference to the logical data source/sink name. This EPR 
(not yet a Data EPR) could be passed into the DTF as part of the 
requestDataTransfer operation and then that service EPR is populated with the 
DataWrapper element so that the DTF has a enough information to undertake the 
transfer.

Action: Michel to produce a scenario document (possibly using RNS as an example) 
to put in more detail as to how the DataWrapper could be produced by another 
service.

 

Action: Michel: To contact Hiro about getting a half day slot at the OGSA F2F.

 

Phrase of the call: Resource disambiguation
