OGSA workflow session, 18 Oct. 2007 1:30-3pm @ Leonesa II

* Steve goes through his slides

** previous plans

** current plan: survey of workflow systems

   How to combine workflow use within a SOA model.

** workflow spreadsheet

Steve asks to the audience to provide his/her workflow info to workflow design team.

any more questions we should ask?

David De Roure will provide several workflow projects' info to Steve.
Roger Menday: How does "call out to process" find target process?
Steven think we may use RNS but we've not gone so far.
Roger will give Unicore's info to Steve.

Steve explains it is 5 minutes survey instead of 2 hour study.

Andrew Harrison to provide Triana's survey

Kepler should be added to the spreadsheet.

Pegasus: EU WG focusing workflow as well.
Steve asks to the audience to send info to him by email.

CoreGrid wiki has a lot of information on workflows.

Steve will ask all of these workflow projects even if they
won't answer.

Donal says one of the question we need here is "what should OGSA do to
enable workflow?" or "What changes are require?"

Hiro does not think current OGSA prohibits workflow.
Steve thinks so as well but we need analysis.

Donal asks why any WG/RG did not do such survey so far?

Steve thinks existing workflow (Pegasus...) may easily plug in OGSA
but again we need analysis on this.

Fred Brisard: Do we want workflow to be able to invoke Grid Service? and
vice versa?

Steve thinks the answer to the 1st part is yes. 2nd part (vice versa)
is maybe.

Donal: Also add "Taking out the implicit workflow from JSDL?"
Here implicit workflow is "Stage in > execute > stage out"

Lot of people thinks taking out is a good idea.

Donal says right now, you need non-standard extension for workflow
within JSDL 1.0.

Steve asks Taverna provides web service invorkation?
No. not by default but relatively trivial to adhere (from spreadsheet).

David: There is no tooling to do that.
If there is huge community need this, David thinks Taverna will provide
this feature.

Fred: How about security?

Donal thinks both Authentication and Authorization are necessary.
User should sign on each workflow before submit.

Steve: Do they have mechanism to authenticate user or authenticate for
each workflow?

Fred: Does current ogsa ESP take care of such authentication?

Hiro: ESP covers very simple authentication only. delegation is not
in their scope.

Steve: delegation is necessary for workflow. but ESP does not cover
by obvious reason. "security design issue" should be one of requirements
"what should OGSA do to enable workflow?"