DAIS Telcon 08 July 2005
========================

Chair: Norman Paton
Notes: Mario Antonioletti

Attendees:

	Simon Laws, IBM
	Norman Paton, University of Manchester
	Mario Antonioletti, EPCC
	Dave Pearson, Oracle

+---

Simon:

Go through the email that Simon posted to the list regarding issues.

http://www-unix.gridforum.org/mail_archive/dais-wg/2005/07/msg00007.html

Page 5, Sec 3.8: As a resource may be identified by an endpoint and a
separate abstract name, I wondered if this wasn't quite right.

Simon: When I wrote this I was implying that the data resource
       includes an EPR and enough information to distinguish the data
       resource. Later on this is described in more detail in the
       factory section. Have a construct that has an EPR and the name
       of a resource. The WS-Naming draft states that the abstract
       name is included in the EPR and will be using that structure to
       use these pieces of information. Seems like a good idea. Wish
       to use this.

Norman: the resource is identified by its address and in another case
	it is identified by the address and the abstract name. Hence
	the text in 3.8 is ok but it is not very precise. Maybe it
	should be more precise.

Simon: could tidy this up but this is a general point as to what we
       think an address is ....

Norman: so maybe that is alright ... is there a tighter definition
	later on?

Simon: have reworded the naming section ... for the purposes of WS-DAI
       an abstract name is a URI, have included a bit of xml and
       changed the WSDL ... have also simplified the text that
       follows...

Norman: so that structure is being used to feedback the result ....

Simon: same as before but we got rid of a layer of XML which
       simplifies ... when passing a message to a DAIS resource the
       consumer must provide the address and information to
       discriminate the resource that is being used .... goes on to
       describe that the two cases fall out: WSRF and the non-WSRF
       section. Leave as is and tighten up later ...

...

Page 12, Sec 5.1: do we have a property that indicates the languages
supported on a resource?

Mario: there is in the relational and now that if we have a generic
       query operation maybe this could be promoted to the core spec.


Simon: but:

Page 12: I wonder if we should have a placeholder here for a CIM
description of the installed data resource management system.  This is
in practice the only way of working out what language expressions can
be passed.

       Could use this to describe the language.

Norman: may not be good to use a generic place holder ... have a top
	level query operation - we know the value it takes in as a
	parameter but we do not know what the actual language means
	... there is no inter-operable way of defining this ... there
	is no formal way of describing this ....

Mario: can't we just promote the language properties thing?

Simon: concerned that you don't know what message it refers to ...
       languages supported at the top level does it only refer to the
       top level operation?

Norman: yes..

Simon: then it does get a bit complicated ... 

Norman: with SQL you can be told what version of the standard it is
	claiming to support ... but you have a greater degree in the
	real world ... so you can get round that by specifying other
	things ...

Simon: the data resource description has been introduced as a
       configurable property that you can introduce by the manager to
       describe it ... you could introduce another static property
       that describes the data resource ... do we say it's a CIM
       thing? ...

Norman: at some point will people pick our spec and find the
        non-interoperable bits ... if we want to build an
        inter-operable thing we need to build in a model. Can connect
        into CIM to describe the DBMS and another to describe the
        Schema ...


Dave: can say that we expect this that you will be able to do this
      once the CIM model is there....

Simon: so we add something like CIMDataResourceDescription as a static
       property to describe this sort of thing ...

Norman: should check with Sue ... leave some CIM stuff in the
	relational one to describe the schema and a bit of CIM in here
	to describe the DBMS ... this will provide information on how
	to use the generic query operation ...

...

Simon:

Page 18: end point(s) - why > 1?  What are the semantics of that?

      refers to something coming out of a factory. Have changed so
      this comes out of an EPR. If we want more than 1 then we would
      have to adjust the return type of the addresses. It is not a > 1
      cardinality now.

      In the WS-Naming they are using an old version of WS-Addressing
      ...

...

Simon: there is a very early draft of WS-Naming ...

Dave: they say early draft in early June and specification on March
      '06 so can't really use as yet ...

...

Simon:

Page 20, Sec 6.2: As the conduit is a WS-Resource, surely it doesn't
need these messages - instead they must be defined in such a way that
they are available for all resources not represented as WS-Resources.

       Put some message to describe things generically but as we are
       now calling it a WS-Resource can we just say that these
       messages will be generically available.

       So can remove these messages and refer to WSRF.

Norman: still need a destroy operation.

Simon: need to put the destroy back in section 5.3 and put it back on
       the WSDL.

...

Page 21, Sec 7.1.2: is it stated what the behaviour of lifetime
messages is if the conduit is used with externally managed resources?
Do the messages all fault?

Norman: you could have an externally managed resource that is a WSRF
	data resource in which case you invoke a destroy ...  ok in
	both case ... so the messages fault ....

Simon: or the data resource goes away ...

Norman: need to be clear .....

Simon: in the non-WSRF case it faults, but in the WSRF version.

Dave: destroy is like a drop table command ... thinking whether it is
      necessarily a fault ... a user may want to remove it if they
      have created ....

Simon: the case though it is an externally managed resource ..

Dave: but if it is a derived data resource it could create this...
      
Simon: we do not provide a way of specifying this ...

Norman: but we have the property ....

Simon: but I made that static ...

Norman: so the factory can choose whatever it wants so it could be an
	externally managed resource...

Simon: so do we fault or just remove the WS-Resource?

Norman: my inclination is that you remove the WS-Resource else you are
	stuck with it for ever ....

Dave: it's the kind of thing that they pick up on implementation....

Norman: they may complain if you can't remove a WS-Resource...

Simon: but the data resource does not disappear.

...

ParentDataResource:

"If this data resource is a service managed data resource this
property holds the data resource abstract name of the data resource
from which it was generated. If the data resource is an externally
managed data resource this property will be empty."

Simon: wrote this text with a mistake understanding - a factory
       message can result in internally/externally managed resource so
       just need to fix the text ...

Norman: could envisage created a service managed data resource out of
        band.

...

MessageResourceMap: This is referred to in several places in the
direct data access part of the spec where I think the reference should
be to the MessageDatasetMap.

Simon: have 2 maps where they were used inconsistently that needs
       fixing.

...

<RequestDocument/>

"contains the request expression. The structure of this document is
specific to the expression being used. The name of this element SHOULD
indicate the language used by the expression."

Simon: is there a requirement to change the WS-DAI?

Norman: change the WS-DAIR version .... the request has been split
	over two top level elements ...

        Envisage that the parameters are not the top level ....

...

Simon: moment have SQLExecuteRequest ... the WSDL is different from
       the spec? ... has executerequest ....

       Need to fix the relational text.

...

       Collecting the major points of change at the end of the
       message. Status is as in the message.  WSDL and document
       match. Can put a new version on Grid Forge if that is useful
       .....

...


