
DAIS TELCON MINUTES (26th October 2004)

Present:
Norman Paton, Dave Pearson, Allen Lunievski, Susan Malaika, Greg Riccardi,
Leon Guzenda

Apologies:
Brian Collins, Simon Laws, Mario Antonioletti


1. Making explicit the DAIS value proposition.

Current status: there is a preamble to the socialising document, which Dave
wrote.  Following discussions at GGF12, Dave acknowledged that some changes
could be required to sharpen the description of the value proposition.  For
example, these could take account of the results of the Clabby Report 2004
(http://www-1.ibm.com/grid/pdf/Clabby_Grid_Report_2004_Edition.pdf), which
gives some useful insights into the Grid roadmap and standards, and perhaps
provides a context for stating the value-proposition more clearly.  The
report discusses the development and use of data grids, and the value
proposition should build on some of these aspects.

Action: Dave to draft an update this week.

2. Identifying contact points for socialising.

Next week, Dave will be at Enterprise Grid Alliance Meeting at Redwood
Shores.  As such, the plan is to start the socialising process at EGA; 
this should be a good way to test the market.  Susan indicated that the
DAIS work was well known inside IBM, but that socialising could involve
providing the document to the Director of Grid Computing.

An important issue is the dependency of the DAIS framework on other
standards.  In terms of WSRF, the hope is that the WSRF standard
is evolving to accommodate most of the main concerns, including those
raised through DAIS.  The WSRF specs are likely to stabilise by the
summer of next year. The WS-Resource "Embodyments" documents that
summarises the current position is at:

http://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/wsrf/download.php/9547/wsrf-WS-Resource-1.2-draft-01.doc

XML database vendors, etc, should be approached through the Chairs of
the XQJ and XQuery lists. 

Action: Susan to email to Dave contacts in XQJ and XQuery groups.

3. Submitting the Mappings Document.

The embodyment document on WSRF in Oasis seems to have taken account of
many of the issues raised by DAIS.
 
Action: Norman to recommend that Simon reports back at the next call.

4. AOB.

Object Data Access: Thomas Soddermann agreed at GGF12 to develop a draft
realisation of the DAIS framework for circulation and comment.  Leon
indicated that an initial document could be useful for bringing more
people on board.  Action: Norman to prompt Thomas regarding a posting to
the list.

Transactions: It was indicated that some interest had been expressed by
Susan Urban in advanced transaction models a grid data access setting;
this may surface at a subsequent call.

CGS Call: Next call to discuss extension to SQL model to handle stored
procedures on November 2nd

