DAIS Telcon Minutes - 14/06/05
==============================

Notes: Mario Antonioletti
Chair: Norman Paton

Attendees:

	Norman Paton, University of Manchester
        Mario Antonioletti, EPCC
	Susan Malaika, IBM
	Dave Pearson, Oracle
	Allen Luniewski, IBM
	Amy Krause, EPCC


Agenda:

 o Finalise Session Contributions for GGF14 

+--


A number of things to discuss at the meeting were proposed by Susan
Malaika (numbered items):

0. The role of the conduit when sending messages to Type 2 and Type 3
   resources.

Simon: was not at GGF13 so my understanding was derived from notes and
       conversations from that meeting- had a model where you had to
       identify the conduit which gave a context to those
       messages. That was the model.

       Have seen emails where people say that it is independent
       and that you do not identify the conduit.

Susan: did you see it as a JDBC connection?

Simon: saw it as a fundamental set of properties that allowed you
       to access these resources ...

Norman: the answer is no as JDBC cannot be used to tell you the
	properties of multiple resources and cannot be shared.

Dave: I remember things differently from GGF - we are passing messages
      to data resources - only passing a string to access data in a
      table and then Jay Unger or Dave Snelling said that the DBMS is
      just serving as a conduit.

Susan: yes, you are right, we are just passing a string which we do
       not want to parse ... people were telling us that we had to
       make tables and resources and visible ... we were trying to
       explain that we were not going to do that ... it does not
       matter how it came about ...

Dave: I think it does ... the conduit did not have a great deal
      of significance - just used to pass a string to a DBMS.
      Conversation went on from there - accessing tables and
      results are not first class citizens but the DBMS is...

Susan: the conduit was WSRFish thing ...

Dave: yes, the conduit was justified to use WSRF ... while 
      we are trying to access data which may lie in a DBMS.
      For a result set there is no conduit as far as I can
      see.

Susan: true that the conduit arose this way ... used the
       concept of connecting to the DBMS and the result
       set ... 

Dave: the rational that the result sets in WSRF was not because of the
      conduit but because you have to manage its lifetime.

Susan: that is a good summary of how the conduit came about ... this
       does not mean that this is how it has to be..

Norman: clearly it has evolved into something else - it gives a bit of
	name and property information that can be accessed through a
	local service ... this could be a useful thing ... can see
	what is available. What is it's role when you pass messages of
	type 2 and 3 resources? Are these messages being sent to the
	context of the conduit or is it being sent directly to the
	data resource? If you have several resources then there's
	something to be said for having the conduit to interpret the
	name of the resource. Can just say that it's a list of data
	resource names but then need to ensure that the names are
	unique within the context of the service...

...

Simon: to a certain extent the conduit is transparent of the WSDL but
       it depends on the mapping and the multiplicities ...  if you
       assume there is only one conduit then you have a list of
       resources within that conduit that you can access ... every
       message you pass to that service is passed in the context of
       the conduit ... if you use a different model with a multiplicity
       them you have a trickier job of having to identify the conduit
       and then you have to pass messages in that context.

Susan: what is bad with just having one?

Simon: nothing, you might want to use the conduit to group names...

Dave: using a stored procedure where you have different results what
      happens?

Simon: they are named within the same context ...

Susan: I thought you said one in one of your emails .... it introduces
        a conduit, a sort of light weight registry, but does not
        necessitate a complex naming scheme over and above the end
        point...

Norman: if you have a large number of resources you may want more than
	one where you could use to group these names ... can use the
	name of a conduit to resolve this ... however have not had a
	need for this functionality.

Simon: when going through the WSDL it provides a convenient bridge in
       going from WSRF to WSI and vice versa but that was not
       requirement driven but implementation driven ...

Dave: part of the discussion in GGF was that in WSRF you got a name
      back then you would need two trips to resolve that name ...

Simon: it depends on the mapping you choose. Can use the conduit to
       alleviate the pain - in WSRF everything is a WS-Resource for a
       non-WSRF can use the conduit for ..??missed this??.. can use
       whatever scheme you want and the conduit remains the same.

       There is a convenience .....

Susan: you said that this would not impact too much in the relational
	/XML specs ... I think you need to make a statement of what
	goes in a conduit in these specs...

Norman: you are right ... need to determine what information goes in
	the conduit ...

Susan: if you take the simplest approach that is the only thing ...

*Norman departs*

Susan: are we ok with one conduit?

Simon: sounds ok to me .... but lets discuss the mapping of type 1 and
       2 resources ... I'd assumed that type 1 and 2 resources are
       identified by name alone...

Susan: for type 2 you are using names ... if anyone implements DAIS
       with minimum overhead and there is no extra support then that
       would be what they would do, just use names ... I think type 2
       would be just names and can decide what to do for type 3 ...

Simon: for type 2 can send names but we are not expecting to control
       the lifetime - so no lifetime messages ....

Susan: correct ...

Simon: what about the parameters of those resource - information about
       its structure ... do we rely on the normal messages or are
       there special messages like in the WSDL? ...

Susan: I would go with what you have in the WSDL...

Simon: in type 3 you control the lifetime and you have properties -
       you can use both approaches ... we need to decide what the
       default mapping is. It's not as if we are going to deal with
       one type of resources ... a service would deal with both types
       of resources ...

Susan: I would have imagined this where you would have a conduit
       connecting to type 2 and 3 ...

Simon: if you go with the naming then you can go with a properties doc
       and need something to describe the lifetime ...

Susan: easy for type 2 as they already have names ...

Simon: for type 3 we can generate names ...

Susan: but then you might need to conform to something ....  we would
       need the things that are in WSRF.

Simon: but if we used WSRF we would get things ... though you would be
       using different properties .... we would want to use the same
       interface for type 2 & 3 for queries ... it does not seem
       useful to use two types of messages if you are controlling the
       lifetime for type 3....

Susan: the goal of type 2 is not to parse the input string but if you
       make them the same you might need to parse ...

Simon: why?

Susan: the implementation is going to have to do something with the
       input ...

Simon: I don't see that ...

Dave: I think that is quite important .. type 3 is really a result set
      ... what are the operations you perform on a result set.

Simon: it depends on the interface you have chosen ...

Dave: I did not think you would query the result set...

Simon: you could if you choose an interface that does this ... not
       saying how you implement it ...

....

Dave: breaking the rationale of the model if we have to parse strings.

Simon: I take the view that you always pass strings ... it's just the
       lifetime ...

       Discussed a couple of options for type 3 resources ... that
       brings you back to the conduit because thinking about the
       properties ... if these resources have their properties
       accessed and you only have one conduit then it has to have a
       view over all the resources it deals with ...

Susan: I never envisaged having the name of resources in the conduit.

Simon: the list in the WSDL has the resource name and is also
       extensible to include properties of the resource ...

Susan: I don't think that is good ...

Simon:the problem is that you can only have one type of resource per
      service ... and you have to choose a resource for the service
      and that is the conduit. The other things cannot be WSRF
      resources ... the good thing about that is that you can assume
      that there is only one conduit - the fact that you have a WSRF
      resource is irrelevant...  it's just like the properties of the
      service .... made the list is extensible ... can use properties
      documents or you can use WSRF messages to retrieve resource
      properties by navigating through the conduit document ... have
      not included this information in the spec ...

Dave: where you use WSRF messages you are getting the properties of
      the conduit?

Simon: but the conduit has the properties of the resources ...

Dave: an abstraction of where you get resources from ...

Simon: with a web services that exposes a number of WS-Resources, in
       WSRF, in reality the Web Service has a collection of
       properties - if you had a message that returns all the
       properties you get all the properties ....  it's just an
       abstraction.

Dave: but other abstractions have relevance in the rest of the world
      while here we are inventing something ... while in other WSRF
      examples they refer to something concrete.

Susan: I think it is a real thing ...

Susan: you can push this model to describe related data resources -
       nothing says that you have to have related resources but if you
       do, you can build collections of associated data that could be
       useful for sessions and transactions - not necessarily related
       to the way things are done in database land but it allows you
       to group data resources...

...

Susan: so there is no role

Simon: allows you to describe the resources that are available.

Susan: but you don't have to if you already know .... so it scopes
       your world ... it's telling you what things you can get to.

Simon: you can generally access a finite number of things you can
       access and this describes what those things are.

The other questions are considered.

1. The conduit and whether to use the term proposed by Paul Watson "Data
   Resource Group"

Susan: leave that one for the minute?

2. What the conduit properties are. If they include the names of the
   Type 2 and Type 3 resources for the realizations then why were the
   diagrams I sent so disturbing :-) Can a Conduit be referred to by
   another conduit?

Susan: the answer is possibly but then it's a matter of implementation
       ...

Simon: in the relational diagram - the table confused me ...

Susan:taking away table ...just the names of things ...
      have been exchanging a lot of emails around....

3. What kinds of names are used where, and which are compulsory?

   - in Conduit
   - in message exchanges for Type 2

   e.g., for relational databases, relational tables, stored
   procedures, relational functions, XML Collections, XML Documents,
   XML Schemas associated with Collections ... (some items in the list
   are potential Type 2)

   - in message exchanges for  Type 3
     e.g., for Rowsets, XML Sequences ...

...

4. What would a conduit look like for an implementation that supports

   Just the conduit
   Type 2 Resources Only (No conduit)
   Type 3 Resources Only (No conduit)
   Type 2 Resources with conduit
   Type 3 Resources with conduit
   Relational and XML together (Type 2 or Type 3) - without conduit

Simon: an implementation that just supports a conduit every time it
	got a message to do an SQL query it would return an error
	message stating "don't know any such database".

5. The CIM database working group - and whether someone other than me
   from DAIS should participate as well. There are two ways non-member
   companies can participate One person from GGF (from a non-member
   company) can join a particular working group Any number of people
   from academia can join (there are special joining instructions)

6. The namespace request I sent to the GGF->DMTF liaison and the DMTF ->
   GGF liaison

Susan: leave 5 and 6 for now ... going back to question 2.

Allen: I think group is just a funny term to use ... 

Susan: the conduit groups resources ..

...

Dave: the conduit is performing the role of the WS-Resource in WSRF
      ... I don't think that the conduit is a very useful term ....I
      don't like the data resource group. I would suggest resource
      conduit has has more meaning to people.

Susan: we are not doing group ...

Simon: I don't mind using Dave's "resource conduit"  name ...

Susan: have had a similar discussion in the WSRF calls ...  So all we
       have to state in the relational and XML spec is what is in the
       conduit .... don't you have to state what is in there if there
       is a conduit?

Simon: the answer is optionally the document that is returned by the
       get properties message in that realizations....

Susan: should you not say what is in it?

Simon: you cannot explicitly say what is in it as it might be from a
       composition... in the relational the things that are named are
       the database - the target for SQL queries and the result set
       ...

Susan: we need to say ...

Simon: reason for procrastinating over this is that we already have
       the resource name in the core ... this determines what will go
       in the conduit ...

Susan: the resource name is a collection or sequence in the XML spec
       and in the core spec you state what this name is ...

Simon: would be awkward if there were messages targeted at a data
       resource that required several names but was needed to
       disambiguate the target ...  if there is an issue it is an
       interesting point for discussion.

Susan: the resource name of the core has to tie in with the resource
       name of the realizations and we do not have to mention the
       conduit.


*Allen has to leave for another call*

There is a brief discussion of the specs status ... not minuted as I
cannot speak and write at the same time. Try to do a set of documents
for GGF as planned to be ready for this Friday that people can read but 
after that keep evolving the specs.


