DAIS Session 4 - GGF 11 - 09/06/04
==================================

Chair:      Norman Paton
Note taker: Mario Antonioletti

Agenda for this meeting:

1. Representing DAIS Functionalities using Emerging WS-Standards: 
   Savas Parastatidis (60 minutes)

2. Panel to Discuss Informational Document (30 minutes) 
   Savas Parastatidis, Sastry Malladi, Susan Malaika

----


Norman introduces the session.

Had a mappings presentation at a DAIS session at the last GGF. This
has been written up as a document that has been presented at this GGF.

1. Representing DAIS Functionalities using Emerging WS-Standards: 
   Savas Parastatidis 

Presentation at:

 http://forge.gridforum.org/projects/dais-wg/document/GGF11-DAIS4-Mappings/en/2

Document this is based on is at:

http://forge.gridforum.org/projects/dais-wg/document/draft-ggf-dais-mappings-ggf11/en/1

It  has been a pleasure to work with the collaborators.
(Sastry agrees)

Will follow the structure of the document and will not necessarily
express my own opinions. Have taken the DAIS concepts and tried to map
them to different infrastructures.

Have tried to identify the interactions. Will cover the stuff
presented by Simon at GGF10 quickly to have more time to discuss the
other scenarios.

Want to see how data resources are identified ...
(other goals are made in the slides)

There are five scenarios. Only covered the first scenario at
GGF10. Will go through this scenario quite fast.

Have not had time to create figures for third-party delivery but it is
straightforward to outline this scenario.

Infrastructures that are going to be addressed are:

	- WS-I set of specs only
	- WS-I + WS-Context
	- WS-I + WSRF

The classification of terms has changed since the last presentation
for clarify.

Scenario 1.

Query goes to a service, a dataset is produced to represent the data,
this is named using a urn - the urn is returned to the user.

Tom Maguire: how did you know that the table is available? There has
             to be a connection between the user and the table and you
             do not express this relationship ... the granularity of
             the data resource.  The presumption is that there is an
             end point for every database.

No, there is an end point that could represent many databases. The
selection could take place in the query.

Sastry Malladi: how the consumer discovered is out of scope for this
                scenario.

What you get back normally is the result but in many circumstances
this might be too large so in this case you return a name for the data
set produced.

Stateful interactions using WS-I are managed by expressing the name
of the data resource in the body of the message.

If you have multiple services you can still use the same name (how the
replication is done is out of scope for this scenario).

Using WS-Context ... somehow some context is generated - how this
happens is out of scope for this scenario - when you start an
interaction with a service the context is included in the header of
the message. Some infrastructure at the service end extracts the
context and associates this with a local data resource - same as
previously - the response does not include the pointer to the data
resource in the body of the message.

You could then pass another message to operate on that same data
resource - the data resource is identified in the header. Similarly
the same process operates where you have multiple resource.

Charlie Little: the name can be associated with multiple resources?

Yes - the context is not necessarily an explicit identifier for
a data resource.

Sastry: the context can be mapped to an explicit resource by some
        server specific logic.

You can combine the first two scenarios associate a data set by name
and/or by the context passed in the resource.

Context works best when you have multiple users.

...

In WSRF you get an End Point Reference (EPR) as the response to a
query. The reference properties are specific to the service that
produced the EPR. The reference properties are passed between
subsequent message exchanges. The data set is now included in the
header and the end point of the message is not the service but the
EPR.

Susan Malaika: you can't send the EPR to another service?

You are not allowed to take the EPR and use it to interface to the
same service.

Guy Rixon: you can use the factory pattern for the first service to
           create a reference for you to the second service

Susan: why can't you pass the EPR to the second service ...?

You could do it but you would require an intermediate service to
contact the first service.... you can tell the second service that
that is the data resource and the second service can replicate the
data and create a new EPR for that service.

...

Tom: the single address as a physical end point is a misreading of
     WS-Addressing the address in the end point does not have to be a
     physical address...

The address does not have to be a protocol specific address....

Tom: and this could be bound to many different addresses.

But that assumes that it is the same logical service...

...

The multiple service interaction could be expressed using WSRF.

Scenario 1: could be expressed in wsrf.

...

Norman Paton: the client could be informed that the data is being
              replicated and this could be done using WSRF.

Susan: The replication could have been done by the second service by sending
       the EPR of the first service to the second service.

This scenario was supposed to capture issues relating to identity ...

Tom: I would not call that identity I would call it a name ...

... because you can have multiple "name"s for the same resource.

Scenario 2: Sessions

Cannot call the state being held in relation to a data resource as a
session. The session is with the service not the data resource.

With WS-I you create a session by using the factory pattern. The
session could be taken to mean that all messages for that session
will be logged.

Every time you have an interaction with that service you have to use
the session identifier. For the WS-I only case this is now included in
the body of the message. Have made the assumption the entire result is
returned in this example.

At some point you may want to end the session. When you create a
session you can include a timeout so that the session can
automatically be destroyed otherwise you can end the session by using
an explicit endSession message.

In the context approach you could have a context service that
maintains the context or you have a workflow process that creates the
context.  Because the service is aware of the context it can log the
context.

If you assume that a context service does not exist the you can send a
createSession message to a service.

Allen Luniewski: did not see where the session is?

The context is used to create the session

Allen: where does the context begin and where does it end...

It could be done in the same way as with transactions ... the service
receives a message that it is contextualised and if the service does
not already have any information about that context it creates a new
context. What the service dose it up to the service

Sastry: this is not shown in the picture ... it could be done in many
        ways.

Allen: that is confusing ... it should be shown..

Sastry: maybe that's why you (to Savas) should show your previous
        slide first.

...

Once the context is created.

Allen: the session and the context is semantically synonymous.

Tom: the context in this case is capable of creating the context and
     handling the service ... it exposes a message pattern for
     creating the context .... the end point is representing a message
     pattern to create a service ...

yes

Sastry: in the previous service it was assumed that a different
        service was creating a session in this picture a message is
        being used to allow the service to create the context ... this
        could be done with a context service.

...

In all these pictures a context is being used such as the one shown in 
the slide (see slide 29)

Sastry: the address of the context service and the identifier ...can
        list all participating services ... structure here corresponds
        to the WS-Context specification.

Tom: do you have an example that uses WS-Coordination?

No, WS-Coordination has additional semantics that are not required here.

Sastry: the composability is missing here .....

WSRF is very simple. It is not used for modelling sessions.
If you want to model sessions you should use WS-I or WS-Context.

...

Spent a lot of time trying to model sessions using WSRF ... 

Tom: you use contextualisation of messages.

WSRF is used for representing resources. A context service could use
WSRF to manage the context.

Sastry: the complexity is because the end point represents a WSRF EPR
        ...  there is no way of representing the context in a single
        message but you could have a service that represents the
        context as a resource.

In the conceptual model the main recipient of a message is the resource
you cannot put ...

Tom: there are local actors on the message but you can only have one
     receiver. The message is addressed to one EPR. Multiple actors
     can act on that context.

Scenario 3 - Discovery

Using WS-I assume have a registry ... query the registry that returns
metadata that returns information about services and policy.

Do a "get" on a registry for a particular name of a data resource and
get metadata about that data resource.

Allen: this does not look like discovery ... it looks like querying
       for metadata for a known resource

You could change the name in the example with an XPath query...

Allen: so the name would be returned as well as the metadata ...

exactly

nothing specific in WS-Context.

In WSRF it is exactly the same and you get an EPR returned.

Scenario 4: access to metadata

In WS-I can ask for the schema of a table by name ... assume in this
instance that the metadata is the table schema.

...

No difference when using WS-Context.

With WSRF you use the resource properties ... you identify the
resource in the header and do a getResourcePropertiesRequest which
names the required property and you get back the metadata.

Norman: when using the WS-Context could you not send in a message and
        the stuff that you get depends on the context that you are in.

but that does not change the stuff that you get back. It changes the
scope... you could use context to identify who you are which in turn
determines the metadata that you get back. That type of interaction
falls into the sessions scenario.

Norman: getting slightly tripped up because you are passing an
        explicit identifier which is not passed in the context ...

Scenario 5: 3rd party delivery.

In WS-I you ask a query to be run and the results are passed to 
a third party. You specify the delivery end point explicitly.

Norman: you have described push 3rd party delivery but you could use a
        pull mechanism or deferred delivery instead

that is an issue of identity .. how you name the results ... you
specify the name of the data resource, the operation and the delivery
address...

With WSRF  you would only express the EPR to the delivery point.

...

Observations/Issues (these are all in the paper)

Things to consider when choosing an approach

       - stability of the supporting infrastructure
       - interoperability and adoption
       - composability

         for instance with WSRF you cannot use BPEL

       - tooling
       - conceptual model and the differences to the approach.

We do not have any conclusions as we were not given that task.

----


2. Panel to Discuss Informational Document (30 minutes) 
   Savas Parastatidis, Sastry Malladi, Susan Malaika/Tom Maguire

Norman: as a group we can draw general approach but as a group we also
        need to draw some specific conclusions as to what the DAIS
        specs are going to use.  Now move over to the panel session
        and open up to questions from the floor.

Savas: can I show a different scenario where I can take my neutral hat
       off?

Norman: no.

Sastry: (to the audience) was the idea clear about how the different
        scenarios work why would use one or the other?

Tom: and not a combination ...

Steve Newhouse: you did not lose any functionality when adopting any
                of the infrastructures for these scenarios.

Sastry: but there are issues as to how you extend these scenarios ...

Steve: if I was a user I could do exactly the same things using any
       of the infrastructures ...

Sastry: in most cases .... however you could not use WSRF to model
        sessions although you could use a combination of approaches to
        do this

Norman: so if the difference are not functional what are the advantages ...

Sastry: if you want to model a session that could easily be done using
        WS-Context ... if you are using WSRF then you can model
        context as a resource but what is the associated cost of doing
        it that way?

Norman: why would you want to use context?

Sastry: you want to begin a conversation with a service then you, as a
        consumer, only want to pass a context back and forward ...
        you could do that yourself but it would be better if that was
        done for you...

Norman: Susan...?

Susan: to me the Grid is about providing standards for general
       infrastructure that is not a good example ... context helps to
       manage ... but I did not see any particular benefits in the
       examples .... WSRF is used for modelling the state in a service
       which can be passed to another service that can get the state
       from that first service ... the details can then be passed
       easily ...  for instance one travel agent can get your details
       by pulling the EPR from another service

Tony Hey: WSRF is a proposal in OASIS ... Oracle are in OASIS ... can
          the shortcomings of WSRF be sorted so that it is of benefit
          to both parties?

Sastry: it is being done ... there are Oracle people in OASIS ...

Savas: but Oracle are opposed to the model....

Tony: that is not very constructive

...

Sastry: WSRF models a resource behind that service and the EPR has the
        name and identity of that resource ... binds it together into
        one entity that is opaque to the client. If you want to talk
        to the same resource through a different service you
        effectively have a remote pointer to that resource

Tony: I agree with that general thrust ... as a user I would like all
      of your clients to agree ... if you pursue WS-Context without
      the help and support of Microsoft and/or IBM then it's not going
      to get anywhere and vice versa with WSRF

Savas: they are not mutually exclusive ....

....

Steve: there is no functional difference ...

Susan: there is a difference in third party delivery

(disagreement noises from Sastry and Savas)

Susan: you are passing pointers about that represent the state on the
       server side ... that is what WSRF is about and you are able to
       pass that around.. You can create a result set that others can
       identify in a standard way ... we would have to do something
       specific for DAIS to do 3rd party delivery otherwise

Sastry: you can use any of the 3 approaches to do what Susan just
        described ... you could just pass the EPR ....

Susan: standardise the naming convention though ...

Sastry: standardising on the name convention and the addressing is
        fine but combining the two is a problem

Savas: what Sastry just said does leave to some functional differences
       ... because of the binding of these two things ... in WS-I only
       can do operations on multiple data resources ... with WSRF you
       cannot do that without introducing another WSRF resource that
       groups all of these resources together ... this is a discussion
       currently going on in the WSRF list ...

Norman: Susan said that you have patterns ... some generality helps
        but the disadvantages is that that pattern cannot always be
        used

Savas: have not seen situations where you gain as a whole on that
       pattern.

Tom: most of your objections are directed about the use of
     WS-Addressing ... because Microsoft are not involved is not an
     argument ...

Savas: the primary author of WS-Addressing said that just because the
       spec allows this does not prevent you from hanging yourself ...

Tom: we too have asked questions to the authors of that spec ... you
     seem to object to WSRF because of WS-Addressing concepts ...

Sastry: there is no contention with WS-Resource properties ... it's
        the way of that EPRs are being used

Tom: but the normative text in WS-Addressing explicitly talks about
     dispatching to an entity behind the service.

Savas: perhaps Oracle and WSRF people could talk to each other ...

Tom: ... can have that discussion in a public forum when WS-Addressing
     ...

Savas: if you used WS-MD (?) you would not use the same conceptual
       model

Tom: the problem then is the binding of the interface to a particular
     state ..

Savas: you expose something that is inside the service and make it
       explicitly accessible so that it can break ...

Tony: that is why Microsoft moved away ... it's CORBA like ...

...

Savas: the WSRF TC now want to couple the EPR with WSDL ...

...

Susan: can put things that sit behind the service ... you have this
       in URLs and the web scales ...

Savas: the human interactions scale but not the machine-machine
       interactions ... as a human you know how to deal with a 404 and
       a resource not being there ...

Steve: these scenarios are all drawn from a document ... it would be
       nice to see scenarios where there is a functional difference

Sastry: can take the multiple resource scenario where there is a
        difference ...

Tony: that would be a good idea....

...

Adrian Cockcroft: what about the number of round trips?

Savas: there is a model in WS-Agreement where agreements are
       represented as resources .. you don't send the contract but use
       an EPR instead ... you need new messages to get properties or
       the whole agreement ...

Alain Andrieux: once an agreement is accepted you don't need this ...

Adrian: would be good if the document also included round trips ....

Alain: my response is not just the EPR but a copy of the agreement....

...

Sastry: using an EPR to represent a remote document is a stretch ...

...

Norman: we are moving to an end of this session ... in the DAIS
        context we will have to follow-up. We do not know exactly how
        we will follow-up ... we also wanted to find out what it is
        exactly and how we can feed back to the process of the
        emerging specs. We will start discussing as a group how we
        move forward ... in the specs have tried to decouple the
        mapping specific stuff with the actual mapping specifics.

Savas: can I re-emphasise the slide that makes the case that it is not
       only the technical equivalence like other factor like tool
       support and adoption .... these should also be considered.

Dave: it would be useful if anyone can think of scenarios that would
      bring out the functional difference it would be good if these
      could be communicated to the group.

---
