DAIS Session 1 - GGF 11 - 07/06/04
==================================

Chair:      Dave Pearson.
Note taker: Mario Antonioletti

Dave welcomes people to the DAIS session.

Agenda for this session

   1. Introduction. Review of Activities to Date: Dave Pearson 
   2. Grid Data Services Specification Update: Norman Paton 
   3. Discussion of Grid Data Service Specification Issues: Norman Paton 

----
1. Introduction. Review of Activities to Date: Dave Pearson 

A copy of the presentation is available at: 

 http://forge.gridforum.org/projects/dais-wg/document/GGF11-DAIS1-Intro/en/1

Dave Pearson presents an overview of the scope and goals of
DAIS. 

OGSA-DAI is mentioned as an eventual reference implementation of DAIS.

A timeline of DAIS activities through previous GGF meetings was
presented.

For GGF9 the DAIS documents were refactored into separate documents: a
core document, a relational and XML realisations that extend the core
document.

Dave publicises the fact that a files BOF is taking place at this GGF
which may add another realisation. Dave also publicise the Infod
working group meeting.

Other things of note:

  - Minor changes have been made to the DAIS charter since GGF10. 
  - The other DAIS sessions scheduled for GGF11 are advertised.
  - The documents produced for GGF11 are mentioned
    - an updated core document
    - an updated relational realisation document
    - an updated xml realisation document
    - a document discussing different mappings of DAIS to different WS specs

Dave introduces Norman Paton who is to give an update on the changes
that have been made to the core specification since GGF10.

----

2. Grid Data Services Specification Update: Norman Paton 

A copy of the presentation is available at:

http://forge.gridforum.org/projects/dais-wg/document/GGF11-DAIS1-CoreAndIssues/en/1

No one is expected to implement the core specification directly - this
is done through the realisations.

The name of the specification has changed from "The Grid Data Service
Specification" to the "Web Services Data Access and Integration".
This reflects the fact that we see the specification as being relevant
outside the Grid Service area.

There are implicit and explicit references to other specifications.

Sastry Malladi: does it currently have an explicit dependence on WSRF?

It does in the mapping section. The group however does not have an
official position on WSRF yet. This mapping is thus currently
indicative.

DAIS has been working with other working groups - e.g. the DMTF
through the CIM GGF WG to prevent replication of work.

Q: when it says that it is focused on structured data what about APIs
   that expose data resources as structured data - does this specs
   deal with that?

If there is another type of data resource then the specs have been
factored in such a way that a new document can be produced to cater
for this.

Q: what determines the realisation - the data resource type or the
   data format? i.e. a relational resource could expose data as xml ...

This would be an implementation detail.

The documents are currently all drafts but hope to make these
specifications. The specs are informed by the "OGSA Data Services" and
"Scenarios for Mapping DAIS Concepts" documents. The latter two
document will remain as informational documents.

Since GGF10 have removed the dependency on OGSI and have reorganise
the documents to try and remove external dependencies.

A data service is a web service that corresponds to one of the DAIS
specifications.

Q: does a data mining system count as a data resource? i.e. it is a
   sink ... you have defined a data resource as being kind of broad.

It could be. If a data mining system exposes a suitable API
you could make it into a data resource. Maybe it should be 
tightened up.

Norman goes over terminology (specified in the slides).

The specification does not mandate how interfaces are composed into
services. You could put relational and xml interfaces on data
resources that support both models.

Guy Rixon: in the context of a data service is there an implication if
           you revisit a service that the underlying database is the
           same, i.e the names of things do not change?

The spec does not state that the names of things do not change.

Malcolm Atkinson: this is an important point. Identifying the data is
                  important Need to determine whether you are talking
                  to the same resource.

                  Need a specific global naming scheme - if you use an
                  end point resource as in WS-Addressing then there is
                  no requirement that the EPR will point the same
                  thing.

Norman: the first part of the spec is mapping independent

Sastry: how you name a data resource should be independent of the mapping.

Currently a name is exposed which is not the same as a WSRF end point
reference. If you do not use WSRF you could a context token to
identify the data resource.

...

Maybe should not say anything about identity in this part of the
presentation as this is tied to the mapping used. Tricky to resolve
this issue without considering the mapping.

The behavioural properties should not change over time as the
semantics of the service are not well defined over this transition
point.

Do not have many data descriptions items as we are looking for
something that is generic for all types of the data resources. If you
thin that something has been missed out then do let us know.

Sastry: how are the properties described in the WSDL?

That is mapping specific. This currently is a resource property but it
could be done in another way if you were to use another mapping.

Behavioural properties are listed which characterise how the service
behaves when interacting with a consumer. Norman again asks whether
the list is complete and whether the definitions provided are
adequate. Transaction behavioural properties are presented as an
illustration of the use of behavioural properties.

Sastry: WS-DAI - the core does not have a WSDL specification? Is there
        any WSDL?

There is a little. If we were using WSDL 2.0 there might be some more.
There is a lot more in the realisations.

For the behavioural properties there are type definitions in the core
spec that can be used.

Guy: you do not seem to have any general interfaces for the curation
     of data that associate metadata with data?

Not yet.

Malcolm: ? (did not catch what Malcolm said but it was a supporting
         statement about what Guy had made)

David Martin: that is the metadata question. 

(Question directed at Steve Langella who has had BOFs at two previous GGF
 meetings in order to set up a GGF RG.)

Steve Langella: trying to form a group at GGF or possibly work within
                the context of the Semantic Grid... trying to resolve
                this for this GGF. Looking for a home at this point
                to carry this work out.

David: it's a tough problem to even define what metadata models are.

We have been associating our metadata with the data.

Sastry: is the scope of DAIS set on accessing data resources or is it
        about how to virtualise the data resource in the context of
        the Grid? If it's the former what is the difference with
        existing products ... you do not cover the virtualisation...

We are not trying to do something new as such ...

Sastry: virtualisation is different ... you are trying to define an 
        interface ... virtualisation hides how the data access is done ...

Dave Pearson: this comes down to whether we are just putting a wrapper
              round JDBC and what the value of that is ... the owner
              of the data will determine what you can see ... in a
              scientific data environment you will want to give people
              access to these data resource and give people the
              ability to run queries ... this came out of requirements
              that came out of initial work in the UK ...

Sastry: defining an interface to a data resource has nothing to do
        with Grid...

We are going to get into a debate on the definition of Grids ... if
we can characterise the question more precisely we can come back to it
during the data services session.

In the core document message patterns are presented that provide
templates that are substantiated by the realisations. A relational
example of a message exchange is given.

Data factory allows representations of data to be exposed at the
service end through a suitable interface. There are no operations
defined in the core spec - this is left to the realisations but
a set of message patterns are established the details of which
are filled in by the realisation documents.

We do not define data management at the moment. This arose from
the OGSA Data Services document. There is work going on elsewhere.
There are three aspects of management:

      - managing the resource
      - managing the service
      - managing the service-resource relationship

David: do you think WSDM is going to produce enough detail?

They are going to provide the framework.

Sastry: WSDM are going to provide the framework - it is up to the
        working groups to provide the details.

Brian Collins: there is a complex relationship of working groups
               ...  we liaise with CIM which feeds into WSDM in
               OASIS... other groups are addressing this ... they may
               not do so to the required detail ... we need to keep an
               eye on what is going in that space ....

Sastry: that is the right approach ... this group should not define
        management...

Currently we have a holding position to see what happens in this space.

Dave: currently out of scope but we would like someone else to put
      it in their scope ...

Malcolm: this group should still define the requirements so that when
         a framework comes out we can see if this meets the
         requirements ...

This is a sensible suggestion. We have been actively interacting with
other groups. Some of the use cases identified by this group have
been used to drive the work in the CIM group.

Have avoided mapping issues as there is going to be a discussion at
a later DAIS sessions. 

Only one slide is given showing aspects of the present mapping to
WSRF.

Malcolm: surprised that a data resource point maps to an End Point
        Reference... the web service may manage many resources ... you
        may require more than just the end point reference ... each
        web service may identify the resource differently and web
        services may use different identifiers ... we should ensure
        that if we have two identities they refer to different
        resources ... we could have the same name mapping to different
        resource through different web services ...

In this mapping users see resources identified by end point references,
an additional name property is available as an identifier... there
is an issue then on how WSRF identifies the resource and how the
resource is actually identified. More discussion on this is expected
at the mapping session.

Norman goes over the remaining DAIS session and sessions that are
of relevance to DAIS.

----

3. Discussion of Grid Data Service Specification Issues: Norman Paton 

The same set of slides were used for this part of the presentation.

Norman lists some of the DAIS issues already identified:

       - have we missed anything out
       - are there anything that are should be addressed...

...

David: WS-Security ....

Sastry: WS-Security only gives the way of passing the stuff ... need an
        operation to pass the credentials....

Is this out of scope?

Guy: if you want to use WS-Security you have to do per port type....

David: that is not a WS-Security issue it is an implementation...

...

Sastry: you need an operation to get the credentials....

Need to look at the WS-Security and how this impacts on DAIS.

Malcolm: there is an issue as to whether files are going to be 
        incorporated within the DAIS framework ...

There is a BOF to address this ...

Malcolm: so it's still undecided ...

This will be examined at the BOF. They will examine something that
is going to fit in this framework. Still not clear whether this
will function within this group or as its own group.

Guy: given that your resource is a writable should there be
     behavioural characteristics defining who can write to it?

We expose functionality that is provided by an underlying resource
... for relational resources if you have access to the database and
are authenticated to write you will have the associated privileges
... these things are described by the CIM model ... you raise an
interesting question as to whether this should be a behavioural
property....

Malcolm: need an accounting model ... may have a 1Gb for 1 day or 0.1
         Gb for 10 days.... the accounting model is much more subtle
         if the data resource is doing this ... if it's doing it then
         we need access to this ...

There are lots of properties that would come through the CIM model that
are related to management ... we may not provide mechanism.

Guy: this is metadata relating to a resource ... need to have that
     metadata available at the interface

That is a fair point. CIM does not have these properties available 
at the moment....

Malcolm: ... need to provide an interface to what can provide that kind
         of information ... need a way of enquiring ...

----


