OGSA-WG interim F2F meeting July 29 to 31 at ANL

Place: Argonne National Lab. Building <TBD> room <TBD>
Dial-in: <TBD>, passcode <TBD>
Material: <TBD>

[Day 1 pm, July 29 1-6pm]

1-1) Early discussion
	Note taker assignment
	Roll call (in person and on bridge)
	Last call's minutes approval
	Agenda bashing
	AOB

1-2) Review "expected meeting output/goal" proposal
	Hiro will send out shortly

1-3) Grouping and prioritize of function requirements discussion
	Reorganize and prioritize (e.g. required, recommended,
	optional) all requirements use "GPA Grid core functions" and
	the other input. 
	Andreas will send out the draft list of functions shortly
	Each requirement should have short (up to 5 line) description.

1-4) Send draft minutes to the list

[Day 2 am, July 30 9am-noon]

2-1) Early discussion
	Note taker assignment
	Roll call (in person and on bridge)
	AOB

2-2) Service taxonomy discussion
	based on Jay's draft and the other inputs, reorganize all 
	services from OGSA user's point of view (service endpoints).
	Each service should have short (up to 5 line) description.

[Day 2 pm, July 30 1-6pm]

3-1) Service factoring and hieracy discussuion
	based on Andreas's draft and the other inputs, reorganize all 
	platform services from the provider's point of view.
	Identify common functionality across services, and how
	things are put together between OGSI and the upper level
	services (core, data, etc)
	Each service should have short (up to 5 line) description.

3-2) Send draft minutes to the list

[Day 3 am, July 31 9am-noon]

4-1) Early discussion
	Note taker assignment
	Roll call (in person and on bridge)
	AOB

4-2) Platform services prioritize and owner assignment
	Priority: required, recommended, optional
	Each service should have one or two pages description.
	Owner will be WG/RG co-chairs, their delegates, or volunteers
	(if appropriate WG/RG does not exist) 
	Review service description template

4-3) Review Table of Contents straw for platform document (rev. 2)
	Hiro will send out shortly

4-4) Usecase document discussion
	Status review of expected use cases (Ravi, Jeffrin, other WGs)
	If we have time, review usecases and collect comments on them. 
	Then the comments will be forwarded to the authors for update.

4-5) Wrap up
	Review next steps
	    tele conf, 2nd F2F, GGF9, A service developer workshop
	AOB

4-6) Send draft minutes to the list
