Session place: OGF21, Seattle, USA, Oct 18th, 2007, 1.30 pm-3.00pm
Session name: Remote Instrumentation Services in Grid Environment (RISGE-RG)
Session leader: Marcin Plociennik <marcinp@man.poznan.pl>, PSNC, Poland
Attendance: 14 participants

Presentations:

1. Ocean Observing System Instrument Network Infrastructure (SENSORS),
Observatory Middleware Framework (OMF),
Ocean Observing Initiative: Network for Ocean Research, Interaction and 
Application (NORIA) projects - Duane Edgington

2. Service Oriented Architectures for Remote Instrumentation - Michael 
Sutter

3. RINGrid: Evaluation of Remote Instrumentation Infrastructures - 
Thomas Prokosch

4. Grid enabled Remote Instrumentation with Distributed Control and 
Computation  - Roberto Pugliese

Additionally there was related presentation during general sessions:
5. Real-time Web 2.0: Evolution of Middleware for Grid based Instruments 
and Sensors, by Donald F. (Rick) McMullen

You can find all presentations in GridForge:
http://forge.ogf.org/sf/docman/do/listDocuments/projects.risge-rg/docman.root.meeting_materials.ogf21


Discussion:

* The group agrees to start by building a detailed roadmap as a first step.

* The group agrees in parallel to collect  from each project or 
institution involved in the RISGE group short abstract about research, 
contacts to be
provided on GridForge webspace and wiki

* Costas Kotsokalis proposes the following:
  - Start with soliciting use cases from group participants and other 
groups of interest
  - Build a common use case, i.e. the least common denominator of all 
use cases, or a superset of them.
  - Describe common use case ala OGSA document, identify requirements 
and necessary capabilities in the same style
  - Proceed by establishing WG to standardise the relevant capabilities

* Thomas Prokosch suggests that maybe the description of the common use 
case implies a WG by itself. The group discusses about this, agrees to 
go for a WG later on (when we are ready to propose normative 
descriptions of interfaces)

* Marcin Plociennik says that a template for the use cases must be 
identified soon so that we start collecting input ASAP. Mat Viljoen 
suggests we use the OGSA use case template.

* Marcin Plociennik proposes meetings roadmap: OGF22, OGF23, OGF24.
Suggests possible meeting at INGRID'08, Italy ( to be discussed with 
INGRID conference organizer's). The group agrees to disseminate relevant 
CfP and try to have a meeting there if enough participants show up.

* Discussion on relevant community for Visualization and Steering, who 
had a meeting just before RISGE-RG. Some discussion must take place to 
identify commonalities and look into the possibility of the two groups 
merging. The final decision is on them, as the RISGE-RG is already 
established.

* Marcin Plociennik proposed group logo and common template for the 
presentations

* End of discussion, farewell; Next meeting in Boston, OGF22.

