     OGSA related working group, research group and specification
			   naming guideline

	       Version 1.0, Approved by GFSG on May 5th


It is expected that a number of new groups will be created in GGF in 
order to develop informative or normative documents on OGSA 
architecture, specifications, or profiles. Within GGF the GFSG has 
sole authority on managing group and document names and therefore has 
the responsibility to ensure that the "OGSA" brand remains meaningful 
and a valuable asset to GGF. This document defines a set of the 
guidelines on the usage of the term "OGSA" in the names of groups and 
specifications. 


Group name

If a new working group or research group proposes to use the word 
"OGSA" in its name, for example "OGSA ByteIO WG", the WG's charter 
should satisfy the following conditions:

-	The documents they produce are intended to be consistent with the 
overall architecture as defined by the OGSA requirement document 
[OGSA Arch] (or its successor documents in force at the time of 
their document's presentation). If the group intends to address a 
problem in the architecture it should clearly state so.

-	Their management rules synchronize their activity with the OGSA-WG 
and other OGSA related WGs. Specific mechanisms to achieve this 
synchronization should be identified. For example, common document 
reviews, teleconferences, or face-to-face meetings are all 
acceptable mechanisms.

-	Their work builds on top of at least one OGSA profile or interface, 
or can be combined with at least one other OGSA profile or 
interface at the same level. If the group intends to work at the 
lowest level of the architecture, it should build on 
the "Infrastructure level" as defined by the OGSA Evolution Policy 
Statement document [OGSA Evolution]. 

If and only if all three conditions are satisfied, the GFSG may allow 
the new WG to use the word OGSA in their group name. The GFSG may call 
on the OGSA-WG for technical advice in order to determine whether 
these conditions are satisfied.


Specification name

An informative or normative document developed by some WG other than 
OGSA-WG may use the word OGSA in its title if the following conditions 
are satisfied.

-	The document is consistent with the architecture as defined by the 
OGSA requirement document [OGSA Arch] (and its successor documents).

-	If the document is an architectural specification, it must address 
an identified problem, describe use cases, and describe definition 
of services in the OGSA architecture.

-	If the document is not an architectural specification, it must 
build on top of at least one OGSA profile or interface, or it must 
be combinable with at least one other OGSA profile or interface at 
the same level. If the document defines a profile at the lowest 
level, it should build on the "Infrastructure level" as defined by 
the OGSA Evolution Policy Statement document [OGSA Evolution].

If and only if these conditions are satisfied, the GFSG may allow a 
document with the word "OGSA" in its title to proceed to public 
comment. The GFSG (e.g., the area director) may call on the OGSA-WG 
for technical advice during the initial document review to help 
determine that the above conditions are met. The OGSA-WG is also 
expected to carry out a detailed technical review during the 
document's public comment period.


References

[OGSA Arch] Foster, I., Kishimoto, H.,. Savva, A., Berry, D., Djaoui, 
A., Grimshaw, A., Horn, B., Maciel, F., Siebenlist, F., 
Subramaniam, R., Treadwell, J., and Von Reich, J.: The Open Grid 
Services Architecture, Version 1.0. GGF OGSA Working Group (OGSA-
WG), 2005. http://www.ggf.org/documents/GWD-I-E/GFD-I.030.pdf.
[OGSA Evolution] Snelling, D., OGSA Evolution Policy Statement.

