Date: 18 July 2006

** Participants:
   Jay Unger, IBM
   Ellen Stokes, IBM
   Stephen McGough, Imperial College
   Ian Foster, ANL
   Ravi Subramiavan, Intel
   Hiro Kishimoto, Fujitsu
   Michel Drescher, Fujitsu
   Andreas Savva, Fujitsu
   Peter Ziu, Northrop Grumman
   David Snelling, Fujitsu
   Andrew Grimshaw, UoV
   Mark Morgan, UoV (via phone)

** New Specification Update

- Andrew walks the participants through the most recent updates to the 
  WS-Naming document

- Andrew clarified issues about the "resolve(): EPR" method of the Resolver 
  interface. The optional ERI parameter was removed because it effectively
  did not provide additional inormation. Also, when entering loops to 
  eventually re-resolve an ERI, the service implementation can easily detect
  when to leave that loop. Effectively, the state of the resolution operation
  is maintained on the server, instead at the client, even when the client
  issues multiple resolve requests per ESI.

- The group discusses whether to split the Resolver interface into two port 
  types.
  Resolution: There will be separate port types (which implies separrate 
  	      QNames) for the Resolver. The split wil be made so that the 
	      resolve(0 operatrion has its own port type, as the resolveEPI()
	       meethod will have, too.
  Resolution: Each port type will define an associated element type, 
  	      "EPIResolve" and "ReferenceResolver" (or alike, as long as the
	      element names are different).

- Hiro clarifys that the normative reference to an informational document 
  cannot exist in a normative specification.

- Hiro points point that the XML Schema definition for the ReferenceResolver
  element is missing in the current specification document.

- Hiro points out that the document is inconsistent in terms of ambiguous naming
  (WS-Naming vs Profile on WS-Addressing)

** ResolverReferral protocol

- Dave mentions a discussion on a ResolverReferral protocol discussion at 
  GGF17 for which no minutes seem to exist.

** Trackers

- Tracker 1776 has been closed with no action necessary.

 - Tracker 1777 has been closed as the specifiction covers the issue.

** ACTION ITEMS **

1) Frank Siebenlist, David Snelling
   Inline the "informational document" (written by D. Snelling & F. Siebenlist)
   into the normative specification document

2) Mark Morgan
   Add the formal element declaration of the ReferenceResolver (and the new 
   element and its type) to the normative document.

3) Andrew Grimshaw
   Clarify the document purpose (as being a specification rather a profile) and
   align with the OGSA formal formatting.

4) David Snelling, Frank Siebenlist
   The "Web Service Endpoint Address Identifier Profile" needs to be added to
   the formal WS-Naming specification.

5) unassigned (tentatively: Frank, David)
   Write up the ResolverReferral solution that has been discussed at GGF17 
   and feed back into the WS-Naming group
