Minutes of Meeting taken during LSG BOF
Room 400 Gleacher Center
GGF 6 – 15 Oct 02 Chicago.


Chairs: Dave Angulo and Abbas Farazdel
Secretary: Larry Ang

Attendance List: (With Dave)

Dave started the meeting by welcoming all and made some general announcements especially about the agenda of the meeting.

In the opening discussions, some views were put forth on whether the Apps Research Group (ARG) and LSG RG are complementary or in Conflict.

The meeting generally agreed that these two groups are complementary in nature.

Some of the pertinent points include:

a.	The need for both groups to justify to GGF
b.	 For LSG, there are natural reasons to exist e.g. the fact that biological data is distributed and the volume of data is expected to be very large, in the region of petabytes in the years to come.

The meeting moved on to go through and approve the charter, goals and milestones (please see attached).

By way of introduction, Abbas talked about the uniqueness of life sciences, its community that needs the help of grids. He also talked about the convergence between drug discovery and IT.

As part of the discussion on the charter and deliverables, it was decided that the there should be a survey of case studies. The leader who volunteered was Arun Krishnan (arun@bii.a-star.edu.sg) who would compile and table for the next meeting. The other members who have volunteered to contribute include Jikku Venkat (jikku@ud.com) and Piotr Bala of Copernicus University Poland. 
 
There were some discussions on a number of wide ranging subjects:

-Use cases
- Success stories
- Guides and documents to help 

On Measures of success, Shitoshi Matsuoka, the GGF Area Director explained that they include the number of people involved in the group, the workshops held, etc

The proposed Charter was approved by all present with a small change as follows:

Adding in the phrase “and ecosystems” to “from atoms to populations”
in the second clause.

The meeting went ahead to elect the appointment holders for the LSG RG. The elected members are as follows:

	Chairs = Abbas Farazdel of IBM and Dave Angulo of University of Chicago.
Secretaries = Larry Ang of Bioinformatics Institute, Singapore and Piotr Bala of Copernicus University, Poland.

The meeting ended at 1345 hours.


